o Triangle Square Circle O'al Figure 18.4 Tree representation for object descriptions is small. I large). 390 Learning by Induction Chap. 18 that object 03 (or the description of 03) should not be included in the target set, all nodes above 03 and connected to 03 can be eliminated from the search. In this case, a heuristic which gives preferential treatment would not choose descriptions which contain 03. Another simple example which relates to learning an optimal play of the game of Nim might use a form of preference which introduces a heuristic to block consideration of most moves which permit an opponent to leave only one token. This eliminates a large fraction of the hypotheses which must be evaluated (see Chapter Ii). Bias can be strong or weak, correct or incorrect. A strong bias is one which focuses on a relatively small number of hypotheses. A weak bias does not. A correct bias is one which allows the learner to consider the target concept, whereas an incorrect bias does not. Obviously, a learner's task is simplified when the bias is both strong and correct (Utgoff, 1986). Bias can also be implemented in a program as either static or dynamic. When dynamic bias is employed, it is shifted automatically by the program to improve the learner's performance. We will see different forms of bias used in subsequent sections. 18.6 EXAMPLE OF AN INDUCTIVE LEARNER Many learning programs have been implemented which construct descriptions composed of conjunctive features only. Few have been implemented to learn disjunctive descriptions as well. This is because conjunctive learning algorithms are easier to implement. Of course, a simple implementation for a disjunctive concept learner would be one which simply forms the disjunction of all positive training instances as the target concept. Obviously, this would produce an awkward description if there were many positive instances. There are many concepts which simply cannot be described well in conjunctive terms only. One of 