ng procedure to give us a value between 0 (say healthy) and 1 (say unhealthy), that could be interpreted as a likelihood of a particular state being true. A value 1 means that the classification outcome for unhealthy is positive. Likewise, it is not easy to define rules to filter out spam, and one could use the feedback on human selected emails to build a case base with spam and legitimate class labels. Again, one could use a weighted voting procedure to classify emails as spam (positive) or legitimate (negative). One would have to take care to assign thresholds in a safe manner. In the case of health determination, it might be meaningful to be biased on the side of labelling a case as unhealthy (positive) as opposed to healthy (negative). This is because a false negative, labelling someone healthy when they are not, may have serious consequences. A false positive, labelling them unhealthy when they are not unhealthy, may only have a price in terms of costs for checkups or unnecessary worry. The situation is exactly the opposite while labelling spam. A false positive, labelling it spam when it is not, may result in the loss of an important email. A false negative, labelling it legitimate when it is spam, may only add to the reader s irritation. Typically, in such applications, one tunes some parameters like the threshold that affect the outcome. At one extreme one may label everything negative, leading to a high number of false negatives, and no false positives. At the other extreme, everything is labelled positive leading to a large number of false positives. One may need to choose a threshold carefully after some experimentation, as shown in a typical graph in Figure 15.35. The system is a prototype developed to raise and alarm (positive) while monitoring the health of a system. The two plots for false negatives and false positives cross over at some point, suggesting that point as one where the two kinds of errors are equal. Based on the discussion above, however