applying AC-3
with the partial assignment, the domain of each variable is reduced to green,blue . That
is, we have three variables and only two colors, so the Alldiff constraint is violated. Thus,
a simple consistency procedure for a higher-order constraint is sometimes more effective
than applying arc consistency to an equivalent set of binary constraints. There are more
212 Chapter 6. Constraint Satisfaction Problems
complex inference algorithms for Alldiff (see van Hoeve and Katriel, 2006) that propagate
moreconstraints butaremorecomputationally expensiveto run.
RESOURCE Anotherimportanthigher-orderconstraintisthe resourceconstraint,sometimescalled
CONSTRAINT
the atmost constraint. For example, in a scheduling problem, let P ,...,P denote the
1 4
numbers of personnel assigned to each of four tasks. The constraint that no more than 10
personnel are assigned in total is written as Atmost(10,P ,P ,P ,P ). We can detect an
1 2 3 4
inconsistency simply by checking the sum of the minimum values of the current domains;
for example, if each variable has the domain 3,4,5,6 , the Atmost constraint cannot be
satisfied. Wecanalsoenforceconsistencybydeletingthemaximumvalueofanydomainifit
isnotconsistent withtheminimumvaluesoftheotherdomains. Thus,ifeachvariableinour
examplehasthedomain 2,3,4,5,6 , thevalues5and6canbedeletedfromeachdomain.
For large resource-limited problems with integer values such as logistical problems
involving moving thousands of people in hundreds of vehicles it is usually not possible to
representthedomainofeachvariableasalargesetofintegersandgraduallyreducethatsetby
consistency-checking methods. Instead, domainsarerepresented byupperandlowerbounds
BOUNDS and are managed by bounds propagation. For example, in an airline-scheduling problem,
PROPAGATION
let s suppose there are two flights, F and F , for which the planes have capacities 165 and
1 2
385,respectively. Theinitialdomainsforthenumbersofpassengers oneachflightarethen
D 0,165 and D 0,385 .
1 2
No