less keys. The best type of indices are those with good predictive power. Thus, relevant features determined by content and uniqueness to an item are good sources for index determination. The CYRUS system is a good example of "intelligent" memory organization. It exhibits many of the desirable features possessed by human memories as described in this chapter. They include integrating and indexing events by context, memory reorganization by generalization or specialization, and the formation of new memory structures. Reorganization is performed to reflect commonalities and unique differences among events. E-MOPs are the basic organization unit within CYp RUS. They organize events by indexing them according to their differences. Similarities between events make up the generalized episode descriptions, and separate E-MOPs are associated by causal links. EXERCISES 11.1. What important characteristics should a computer memory organization System po.ssess 11.2. Explain why each of the characteristics named in Problem 11.1 are important. 11.3. What basic operations must a program perform in order to access specific chunks of knowledge? 11.4. Suppose 64-byte records arc stored in . .ize 2 bytes. Describe a suitable index file to access the records using the f0V wing keys (start with block address rabbit dog . cat duck chicken pig cow rat horse ox .mule parrot gopher mouse deer elk 11.5. If ten chunks of knowledge were each stored in records of 64 bytes and the records randomly stored in eight blocks of secondary memory, what would be the access 16226 Knowledge Organization and Management Chap. 11 time when a block can be located and read on the average within 60 ma. and the time to search each record is one m. per block? Compare this time to the time required to search a single block for the same information. 11.6. Referring to Problem 11.4, describe how a hashing method could be applied to search for the indicated records. 11.7. Draw a conceptual indexing tree structure us