ition, it is now recognized that knowledge of English alone is not adequate in general to enable a program to build the kind of structured representation shown here. Additional knowledge about the world with which the text deals is often required to support lexical and syntactic disambiguation and the correct assignment of antecedents to pronouns, among other things. For example, in the text Mary walked up to the salesperson. She asked where the toy department was. it is not possible to determine what the word she refers to without knowledge about the roles of customers and sales people in stores. To see this, contrast the correct antecedent of she in that text with the correct antecedent for the first occurrence of she in the following example: Mary walked up to the sales person. She asked her if she needed any help. In the simple case illustrated in our coat-buying example, it is possible to derive correct answers to our first two questions without any additional knowledge about stores or coats, and the fact that some such additional information may be necessary to support question answering has already been illustrated by the failure of this 16 Artificiol Intelligence at n O LORENA SOREN, program to find an answer to question 3, Thus we see that although extracting a structured representation of the meaning of the input text is an improvement over the meaning-free approach of Program 1, it is by no means sufficient in general. So we need to look at an even more sophisticated (i.e., knowledge-rich) approach, which is what we do next. This program converts the input text into a structured form that contains the meanings of the sentences in the text, and then it combines that form with other structured forms that describe prior knowledge about the objects and situations involved in the text. It answers questions using this augmented knowledge structure. Data Structures World Model English Know Input Text A structured representation of background world knowledge. Thi