s experienced. This separates the clusters to produce compatible, disjunctive descriptions. The system can also learn structural descriptions in the form of network representations. It is possible to build negative disjunctive descriptions as welt, building clusters in the negative part of the frame structure or both positive and negative descriptions. EXERCISES 18.1. Define inductive learning and explain why we still use it even though it is not a "valid" form of learning. 18.2. What is the difference between a class, and a concept? 18.3. What is the difference between selective. constructive, and expedient induction? Give examples of each. 18.4. What is the purpose of inductive.bmas? 18.5. Give three examples in which inductive bias can be applied to constrain search.. 18.6. Use the following training examples to simulate learning the concept "green flower. or skinny object" Build up the corwept description in clusters using We same method as that described in Section 18.6. (green tall fat flower +) (skinny green slxat flower +) (tall skinny greent flower +). (red skinny those weed +) (green short fat weed -) (tall green flower skinny +) 13.7. Work out an example of concept learning using network structures. The concept to be learned is the concept wife. Create both positive and negative training examples. 18.8. Write a computer program in USP to build concept descriptions in the form of clusters the examples of Section 18.7. 18.9. The method described in Section 18.7 for learning concepts depends on the c.rder in which examples are presented. State what modifications would be required to make the learner build the same structures independent of the order in which training examples are presented. 400 Learning by Induction Chap. 18 18.10. Compare each of the generalization methods described in Section 18.4 and explain when each method would be appropriate to use. 18.11. Referring to the previous problem, rank the generalization methods by estimated computation time