l s degree of belief, but as the degree of belief that an idealized
individual should have in a particular proposition a, given a particular body of evidence e.
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 505
Carnap attempted to go further than Leibniz or Laplace by making this notion of degree of
confirmationmathematicallyprecise,asalogicalrelationbetweenaande. Thestudyofthis
CONFIRMATION
relation was intended to constitute a mathematical discipline called inductive logic, analo-
INDUCTIVELOGIC
gous to ordinary deductive logic (Carnap, 1948, 1950). Carnap was not able to extend his
inductivelogicmuchbeyondthepropositional case,and Putnam(1963)showedbyadversar-
ialargumentsthatsomefundamentaldifficultieswouldpreventastrictextensiontolanguages
capableofexpressing arithmetic.
Cox stheorem (1946) showsthatanysystem foruncertain reasoning thatmeetshisset
of assumptions is equivalent to probability theory. This gave renewed confidence to those
whoalready favored probability, but others werenot convinced, pointing to theassumptions
(primarily thatbeliefmustberepresented byasinglenumber, andthusthebelief in pmust
be a function of the belief in p). Halpern (1999) describes the assumptions and shows some
gaps in Cox s original formulation. Horn (2003) shows how to patch up the difficulties.
Jaynes(2003)hasasimilarargument thatiseasiertoread.
Thequestionofreferenceclassesiscloselytiedtotheattempttofindaninductivelogic.
Theapproach ofchoosing the mostspecific reference class ofsufficient size wasformally
proposed by Reichenbach (1949). Various attempts have been made, notably by Henry Ky-
burg (1977, 1983), to formulate more sophisticated policies in order to avoid some obvious
fallacies that arise with Reichenbach s rule, but such approaches remain somewhat ad hoc.
Morerecentworkby Bacchus,Grove,Halpern,and Koller(1992)extends Carnap smethods
to first-order theories, thereby avoiding many of the difficulties associated with the straight-
forward reference-class method. Kyburg and Te