counterwiththesirens,
whose song was so alluring it compelled sailors to cast themselves into the sea. Knowing it
would have that effect on him, Ulysses ordered his crew to bind him to the mast so that he
could not perform the self-destructive act. It is interesting to think how similar safeguards
couldbebuiltinto AIsystems.
Finally, let us consider the robot s point of view. If robots become conscious, then to
treat them as mere machines (e.g., to take them apart) might be immoral. Science fiction
writershaveaddressed theissueofrobotrights. Themovie A.I.(Spielberg, 2001) wasbased
on a story by Brian Aldiss about an intelligent robot who was programmed to believe that
he was human and fails to understand his eventual abandonment by his owner mother. The
story(andthemovie)arguefortheneedforacivilrightsmovementforrobots.
26.4 SUMMARY
Thischapterhasaddressed thefollowingissues: Philosophers use the term weak AI for the hypothesis that machines could possibly
behave intelligently, andstrong AIforthehypothesis thatsuch machines would count
ashavingactualminds(asopposed tosimulatedminds). Alan Turing rejected the question Can machines think? and replaced it with a be-
havioral test. He anticipated many objections to the possibility of thinking machines.
Few AI researchers pay attention to the Turing Test, preferring to concentrate on their
systems performance onpractical tasks,ratherthantheabilitytoimitatehumans. Thereisgeneralagreementinmoderntimesthatmentalstatesarebrainstates. Argumentsforandagainststrong AIareinconclusive. Fewmainstream AIresearchers
believethatanything significanthingesontheoutcomeofthedebate. Consciousness remainsamystery. We identified six potential threats to society posed by AI and related technology. We
concluded that someofthethreats areeitherunlikely ordifferlittle from threats posed
by unintelligent technologies. One threat in particular is worthy of further consider-
ation: that ultraintelligent machines might lead to a future that is very d