oth in
the detail they can reveal and in the sheer amount of data they produce. A video camera
for robotic applications might produce a million 24-bit pixels at 60 Hz; a rate of 10 GB per
minute. The problem for a vision-capable agent then is: Which aspects of the rich visual
stimulusshouldbeconsideredtohelptheagentmakegoodactionchoices,andwhichaspects
should be ignored? Vision and all perception serves to further the agent s goals, not as
anendtoitself.
FEATURE We can characterize three broad approaches to the problem. The feature extraction
EXTRACTION
approach, as exhibited by Drosophila, emphasizes simple computations applied directly to
the sensor observations. Inthe recognition approach an agent drawsdistinctions among the
RECOGNITION
objectsitencountersbasedonvisualandotherinformation. Recognitioncouldmeanlabeling
eachimagewithayesornoastowhetheritcontainsfoodthatweshouldforage,orcontains
Grandma s face. Finally, in the reconstruction approach an agent builds ageometric model
RECONSTRUCTION
oftheworldfromanimageorasetofimages.
The last thirty years of research have produced powerful tools and methods for ad-
dressing these approaches. Understanding these methods requires an understanding of the
processes bywhich imagesareformed. Therefore, wenowcoverthephysical andstatistical
phenomena thatoccurintheproduction ofanimage.
24.1 IMAGE FORMATION
Imaging distorts the appearance of objects. For example, a picture taken looking down a
long straight set of railway tracks will suggest that the rails converge and meet. As another
example, if you hold your hand in front of your eye, you can block out the moon, which is
not smaller than your hand. Asyou moveyour hand back and forth ortilt it, your hand will
seem toshrink and grow in the image, but itis not doing so inreality (Figure 24.1). Models
oftheseeffectsareessential forbothrecognition andreconstruction.
24.1.1 Imageswithoutlenses: The pinholecamera
Image sensors gather light scattered from objects in a scene and cr