e. It therefore provides a substrate forimplementing utility-based agents of the type
first introduced in Section 2.4.5. Figure 16.6 shows a decision network forthe airport siting
problem. Itillustrates thethreetypesofnodesused: Chancenodes(ovals)representrandomvariables,justastheydoin Bayesiannetworks.
CHANCENODES
Theagentcould beuncertain about theconstruction cost,thelevelofairtrafficandthe
potential forlitigation, andthe Deaths,Noise,andtotal Cost variables, eachofwhich
alsodepends onthesitechosen. Eachchance node hasassociated withitaconditional
distribution that is indexed by the state of the parent nodes. In decision networks, the
parent nodes can include decision nodes as well as chance nodes. Note that each of
the current-state chance nodes could be part of alarge Bayesian network for assessing
construction costs,airtrafficlevels,orlitigationpotentials. Decision nodes(rectangles) represent points wherethedecision makerhas achoice of
DECISIONNODES
Section16.5. Decision Networks 627
Airport Site
Air Traffic Deaths
Litigation Noise U
Construction Cost
Figure16.6 Asimpledecisionnetworkfortheairport-sitingproblem.
actions. In this case, the Airport Site action can take on a different value for each site
under consideration. The choice influences the cost, safety, and noise that will result.
Inthis chapter, weassume thatwearedealing withasingle decision node. Chapter17
dealswithcasesinwhichmorethanonedecision mustbemade. Utility nodes (diamonds) represent the agent s utility function.9 The utility node has
UTILITYNODES
as parents all variables describing the outcome that directly affect utility. Associated
with the utility node is a description of the agent s utility as a function of the parent
attributes. The description could be just a tabulation of the function, or it might be a
parameterized additiveorlinearfunction oftheattribute values.
A simplified form is also used in many cases. The notation remains identical, but the
chancenodesdescribing theoutcomestat