 in Figure 5.37 with a beam width 2. What are the successors of nodes F and G in the layer that follows? Assume that h(n) 0 for all nodes. Try the algorithm with an admissible heuristic function (with approximate distances). FIGURE 5.38 A small problem graph. Assume A is the start node, and the goal node. Edge labels are costs associated with the moves. 1 The goal may change with time. Ergonomics in kitchen design earlier had the goal of minimizing the movement of a person in a kitchen. Recommendations in today s sedentary world may be to increase the movement in order to provide exercise! One might think that it is enough to assume that the cost of each arc is positive. But if arc costs are real, then one could conjure up a problem where there exist paths of infinite steps, but whose total cost is smaller than a given value first pointed out by Arvind Narayanan, a student, during my Al class at IIT Madras in the midnineties. See also Zeno s paradox in (Hofstadter, 1999). 3 Korf and his group describe it as being marked used : 4 This observation was made by . Murugeswari. ND Problem Decomposition Chapter 6 The problem solving approach we have explored so far is to search for a sequence of moves starting from the given state in the state space, or a candidate solution in the solution space, till a desired state or solution is reached. This problem solving strategy is essentially forward looking trial and error. In many situations, one can instead reason backwards from the goal to determine what needs to be done. That is, the search algorithm reasons in a backward fashion from the goal, rather than in the forward direction from the given. Of course, in some problems this may not make a difference, for example in path finding in a city map where the two approaches are equivalent. But in some problems, backward reasoning can lead to breaking up the problem into smaller parts that can be tackled independently, leading to smaller search spaces. Consider, for example, the 