aw,business,design,automobilerepair,gardening,dating,andsoon. Theagent sknowledge
482 Chapter 13. Quantifying Uncertainty
can at best provide only a degree of belief in the relevant sentences. Our main tool for
DEGREEOFBELIEF
PROBABILITY dealing with degrees of belief is probability theory. In the terminology of Section 8.1, the
THEORY
ontological commitments of logic and probability theory are the same that the world is
composed of facts that do or do not hold in any particular case but the epistemological
commitments are different: a logical agent believes each sentence to be true or false or has
no opinion, whereas a probabilistic agent may have a numerical degree of belief between 0
(forsentences thatarecertainly false)and1(certainly true).
Probability provides a way of summarizing the uncertainty that comes from our lazi-
ness and ignorance, thereby solving the qualification problem. We might not know forsure
what afflicts a particular patient, but we believe that there is, say, an 80 chance that is,
a probability of 0.8 that the patient who has a toothache has a cavity. That is, we expect
that outofallthesituations that areindistinguishable from the current situation asfarasour
knowledge goes, the patient will have acavity in 80 of them. This belief could be derived
from statistical data 80 of the toothache patients seen so far have had cavities or from
somegeneraldentalknowledge, orfromacombination ofevidencesources.
One confusing point is that at the time of our diagnosis, there is no uncertainty in the
actual world: the patient either has a cavity or doesn t. So what does it mean to say the
probability of a cavity is 0.8? Shouldn t it be either 0 or 1? The answer is that probability
statementsaremadewithrespecttoaknowledgestate,notwithrespecttotherealworld. We
say Theprobabilitythatthepatienthasacavity,giventhatshehasatoothache,is0.8. Ifwe
later learn that the patient has a history of gum disease, we can make a different statement: Theprobability that the p