e reflex behaviors occur even in more complex environments. Imagine yourself
asthedriveroftheautomatedtaxi. Ifthecarinfrontbrakes anditsbrakelightscomeon,then
you should notice this and initiate braking. In other words, some processing is done on the
visualinputtoestablishtheconditionwecall Thecarinfrontisbraking. Then,thistriggers
some established connection in the agent program to the action initiate braking. We call
CONDITION ACTION suchaconnection acondition action rule,5 writtenas
RULE
ifcar-in-front-is-braking theninitiate-braking.
Humansalsohavemanysuchconnections, someofwhicharelearnedresponses (asfordriv-
ing)andsomeofwhichareinnatereflexes(suchasblinking whensomething approaches the
eye). In the course of the book, we show several different ways in which such connections
canbelearned andimplemented.
The program in Figure 2.8 is specific to one particular vacuum environment. A more
general and flexible approach is first to build a general-purpose interpreter for condition action rules and then to create rule sets for specific task environments. Figure 2.9 gives the
structure ofthisgeneral programinschematicform,showinghowthecondition action rules
allow the agent to make the connection from percept to action. (Do not worry if this seems
5 Alsocalledsituation actionrules,productions,orif thenrules.
Section2.4. The Structureof Agents 49
Agent
Environment
Sensors
What the world
is like now
What action I
Condition-action rules
should do now
Actuators
Figure2.9 Schematicdiagramofasimplereflexagent.
function SIMPLE-REFLEX-AGENT(percept)returnsanaction
persistent: rules,asetofcondition actionrules
state INTERPRET-INPUT(percept)
rule RULE-MATCH(state,rules)
action rule.ACTION
returnaction
Figure 2.10 A simple reflex agent. It acts accordingto a rule whose conditionmatches
thecurrentstate,asdefinedbythepercept.
trivial;itgetsmoreinteresting shortly.) Weuserectangles todenotethecurrentinternalstate
of the agent s decision process, and ovals to represent the background