esstowards
thegoal noactionwilleverundoprogressmadebyanotheraction. Itturnsoutitisstill NP-
hardtofindtheoptimalsolution tothisrelaxed problem, but anapproximate solution canbe
found in polynomial time by hill-climbing. Figure 10.6 diagrams part of the state space for
two planning problems using the ignore-delete-lists heuristic. The dots represent states and
the edges actions, and theheight ofeach dot abovethe bottom plane represents the heuristic
value. States onthe bottom plane are solutions. Inboth these problems, there isawidepath
tothegoal. Therearenodeadends,sononeedforbacktracking; asimplehillclimbingsearch
willeasilyfindasolution totheseproblems(although itmaynotbeanoptimalsolution).
The relaxed problems leave us with a simplified but still expensive planning prob-
lemjusttocalculate thevalueoftheheuristic function. Manyplanning problems have 10100
states ormore, and relaxing the actions does nothing to reduce the number of states. There-
fore, we now look at relaxations that decrease the number of states by forming a state ab-
straction a many-to-one mapping from states in the ground representation of the problem
STATEABSTRACTION
totheabstract representation.
The easiest form of state abstraction is to ignore some fluents. For example, consider
an air cargo problem with 10 airports, 50 planes, and 200 pieces of cargo. Each plane can
be at one of 10 airports and each package can be either in one of the planes or unloaded at
one of theairports. Sothere are 5010 20050 10 10155 states. Now consider a particular
problem inthat domaininwhichithappens thatallthepackages areatjust 5oftheairports,
andallpackagesatagivenairporthavethesamedestination. Thenausefulabstractionofthe
problemistodropallthe Atfluentsexceptfortheonesinvolving oneplaneandonepackage
at each of the 5 airports. Now there are only 510 55 10 1017 states. A solution in this
abstract state space will be shorter than a solution in the original space (and thus will be an
admissible heuristic), and the