where Y 7 , To . 3. The topology of the HMM that models coin tosses from the casino is shown in Figure 18.2. 4. Transition matrix T4 4. 5. Emission matrix O2 9 PTB) P(EIT,) - PUTT) - PT T2) N (p PUTIB) ye PUTT) AI PIT) NN B 7) iG NA NLA p ie ars Pe 7; T;) ra f SS NN vA FIGURE 18.2 The transmission matrix of the HHM for modelling the Casino captures the dependencies shown here. Application of HMMs in Biology HMMs have been used extensively in Computational Biology to perform various tasks such as pairwise and multiple sequence alignments, motif finding, gene finding, RNA structure analysis, etc. The book on Biological Sequence Mining by Richard Durbin and coauthors provides detailed account of all these applications. Sequence alignment is a fundamental tools used by biologists for searching the existing databases of known genes or proteins. Such search enables identification of closely matching sequence or homolog of a new gene discovered in an experimental setup. Pairwise alignment is used to align two sequences. The objective is to search for alignment that is optimal in terms of the cost defined by a certain cost matrix. Pair-HMM is used to align two sequences, where the actual alignment is obtained using Viterbi algorithm. Profile-HMM is used to perform alignment of multiple sequences at the same time. 18.3.1 HMM Training The objective of HMM training is to learn parameters 6 (T,O) given a set of training examples and HMM specification in the form of Markov chain, sets of labels and symbols. The parameters can be determined through either maximum likelihood or Bayesian estimation techniques. The training data is specified as (i) an ordered pair of observation symbol sequence and the corresponding label sequence, or (ii) only the observation symbol sequences are given without specifying the corresponding label sequences. We will cover both these cases in this section. Training Data Consisting of Observation and Label Sequences The training data D consists of m ord