e is high and income needs are high and retirement income is medium, Sec. 6.7 Summary 123 THEN: Risk-tolerance is low. IF: Two positive endorsements are medium or high and one negative endorsement is high. THEN: Then favor the positive choice. Endorsements are used to control the reasoning process in at least two different ways. First, preference is given to rules whicn are strongly supported. Second. endorsements permit the condition or left-hand side of a rule to be satisfied (or rejected) without finding an exact match in the KB. The SOLOMON system is goal driven and uses a form of backward rule chaining. A goal is achieed when all of the inference conditions in the left-hand side of the goal rule have been proved. This requires proving subgoals and sub-subgoals until the chain of inferences is completed. The control structure in SOLOMON is based on the use of an agenda where tasks krived from rules are ordered for completion on the strength of their endorsements. Strongly endorsed tasks are scheduled ahead of weakly endorsed ones. And when a task is removed for execution, endorsements are checked to see if they are still worth completing. Endorsements are propagated over inferences P -. Q by combining, replacing. or dropping endorsements Ep associated with antecedents P. endorsements of the implication itself, and other evidential relationships between Q and conclusions in the KB. The SOLOMON system borrowed several design features from another heuristic reasoning system developed by Douglas Lenat called AM (Davis and Lenat. 1982. AM discovers basic concepts in mathematics by investigating examples of a newly generated conjecture and looking for regularities and extreme or boundary values in the examples. With an exponential number of available tasks, the system is always uncertain about what to work on next. For this, AM also uses an agenda to schedule its tasks for further investigation. Here again, heuristics are used to control the reasoning process. The sys