e likes history. the given facts are, R) RA S)DT QV S) UAW) he goal or theorem to be proved is the proposition T. The sentences 1-5 are the premises and the s iclusion. We say that the sentence T is entailed by the sentences 1-5 iff whenever the sentences 1- true. In other words we want to say that the following formula is always true. (PA Q) A (PIR)A (RA S)2T)A (QV S ) A (UA Vy TH? call the sentences 1-5 as the knowledge base KB then we write the the entailment relation as, KBE T ay that the sentence T is entailed by the knowledge base KB (Brachman and Levesque, 2004). We RIIPA QA (PIR)A(IRAS)INA CAV S)ACUAWID I the fact that a tautology is entailed by nothing. rve that the sentence T can also be true when 1-5 are not all true, for example when sentence 5 itences 1-5 being true is sufficient for T to be true, though it is not necessary for them to be true. On ; necessary that sentence T be true for sentences 1 5 to be true. That is, T has to be true if senter in an implication (a B) we say that B is a necessary condition for a; and a is a sufficient condition f ay to verify whether an implication is a tautology is by looking at ai the valuations that make the checking whether the conclusion is true as well. If yes, then we can say that the conclusion is entail . If there are N propositions in the premises and conclusion put together this involves lookit s'9. This can be an expensive computation if the number of propositions is high. Instead logic route to establish the truth of statements, the method of proof. In proof procedures the time cc upon the complexity of the formula and not on the number of propositions used. As we will see tricted languages, the time complexity could even be polynomial. rve that the meaning or content of the sentence does not play any role in the validity of the argum lace the sentences coded by the symbols P, Q, R, S, T, U, V with any natural language senter t will still hold. It is only the form of the argument that matters. That is wh