 In fact, almost everything that humans express in natural language
concerns objectsandtheirrelationships.
As we mentioned earlier, the axis along which atomic, factored, and structured repre-
sentations lieistheaxis ofincreasing expressiveness. Roughly speaking, amoreexpressive
EXPRESSIVENESS
representation cancapture,atleastasconcisely, everythingalessexpressiveonecancapture,
plussomemore. Often,themoreexpressivelanguageismuchmoreconcise;forexample,the
rules of chess can be written in a page or two of a structured-representation language such
as first-order logic but require thousands of pages when written in a factored-representation
language such as propositional logic. On the other hand, reasoning and learning become
more complex as the expressive power of the representation increases. To gain the benefits
ofexpressive representations whileavoiding theirdrawbacks, intelligent systems forthereal
worldmayneedtooperateatallpointsalongtheaxissimultaneously.
Section2.5. Summary 59
2.5 SUMMARY
This chapter has been something of a whirlwind tour of AI, which we have conceived of as
thescienceofagentdesign. Themajorpointstorecallareas follows: Anagent issomething that perceives and acts in anenvironment. The agent function
foranagentspecifiestheactiontakenbytheagentinresponsetoanyperceptsequence. The performance measure evaluates the behavior of the agent in an environment. A
rational agentactssoastomaximize theexpected valueoftheperformance measure,
giventhepercept sequence ithasseensofar. A task environment specification includes the performance measure, the external en-
vironment, the actuators, and the sensors. In designing an agent, the first step must
alwaysbetospecifythetaskenvironment asfullyaspossible. Task environments vary along several significant dimensions. They can be fully or
partiallyobservable, single-agent ormultiagent, deterministic orstochastic, episodicor
sequential, staticordynamic,discrete orcontinuous, and knownorunknown. The agent program impl