re is
uncertainty astowhattheactual valueof X is. Different bidders havedifferent information,
andhencedifferentestimatesoftheitem struevalue. Ineithercase,biddersendupwiththeir
own v . Given v , each bidder gets a chance, at the appropriate time ortimes in the auction,
i i
to make a bid b . The highest bid, b wins the item, but the price paid need not be b ;
i max max
that spartofthemechanism design.
The best-known auction mechanism is the ascending-bid,8 or English auction, in
ASCENDING-BID
which the center starts by asking for a minimum (or reserve) bid b . If some bidder is
ENGLISHAUCTION min
8 Theword auction comesfromthe Latinaugere,toincrease.
680 Chapter 17. Making Complex Decisions
willing to pay that amount, the center then asks for b d, for some increment d, and
min
continues up from there. The auction ends when nobody is willing to bid anymore; then the
lastbidderwinstheitem,paying thepricehebid.
How do we know if this is a good mechanism? One goal is to maximize expected
revenue for the seller. Another goal is to maximize a notion of global utility. These goals
overlap tosome extent, because one aspect ofmaximizing global utility isto ensure that the
winner of the auction is the agent who values the item the most (and thus is willing to pay
themost). Wesayanauction isefficientifthe goods gototheagent whovalues them most.
EFFICIENT
Theascending-bidauctionisusuallybothefficientandrevenuemaximizing,butifthereserve
price is set too high, the bidder who values it most may not bid, and if the reserve is set too
low,thesellerlosesnetrevenue.
Probably the most important things that an auction mechanism can do is encourage a
sufficient numberofbidders toenterthe gameand discourage them from engaging in collu-
sion. Collusionisanunfairorillegalagreementbytwoormorebidderstomanipulateprices.
COLLUSION
Itcanhappeninsecretbackroom dealsortacitly, withinthe rulesofthemechanism.
For example, in 1999, Germany auctioned ten blocks of cell-phone spectrum with a
simultaneo