ory names from a variety of stores.
Trytomakeyourdefinitiongeneral. Testitbylookingattenonlinestores,andatthecategory
names they give for three different categories. Forexample, for the category of laptops, we
found the names Notebooks, Laptops, Notebook Computers, Notebook, Laptops
and Notebooks, and Notebook PCs. Someofthesecanbecoveredbyexplicit Name facts,
whileotherscouldbecoveredbysentences forhandling plurals, conjunctions, etc.
12.11 Writeeventcalculus axiomstodescribetheactionsinthewumpusworld.
12.12 Statetheinterval-algebra relationthatholdsbetweeneverypairofthefollowingreal-
worldevents:
LK: Thelifeof President Kennedy.
IK: Theinfancyof President Kennedy.
PK: Thepresidency of President Kennedy.
LJ: Thelifeof President Johnson.
PJ: Thepresidency of President Johnson.
LO: Thelifeof President Obama.
Exercises 477
12.13 Investigate ways to extend the event calculus to handle simultaneous events. Is it
possible toavoidacombinatorial explosion ofaxioms?
12.14 Constructarepresentationforexchangeratesbetweencurrenciesthatallowsfordaily
fluctuations.
12.15 Define the predicate Fixed, where Fixed(Location(x)) means that the location of
objectxisfixedovertime.
12.16 Describe the event of trading something for something else. Describe buying as a
kindoftradinginwhichoneoftheobjectstradedisasumofmoney.
12.17 The two preceding exercises assume a fairly primitive notion of ownership. Forex-
ample, the buyer starts by owning the dollar bills. This picture begins to break down when,
for example, one s money is in the bank, because there is no longer any specific collection
of dollar bills that one owns. The picture is complicated still further by borrowing, leasing,
renting,andbailment. Investigatethevariouscommonsenseandlegalconceptsofownership,
andpropose aschemebywhichtheycanberepresented formally.
12.18 (Adapted from Fagin et al. (1995).) Consider a game played with a deck of just 8
cards,4acesand4kings. Thethreeplayers,Alice,Bob,and Carlos,aredealttwocardseach.
Witho