ate. Using the basic results of computational learning theory
(Section 18.5), we can quantify the possible gains. First, recall that for Boolean functions,
log( H ) examples are required to converge to a reasonable hypothesis, where H is the
size of the hypothesis space. If the learner has n Boolean features with which to construct
hypotheses, then, in the absence of further restrictions, H O(22n ), so the number of ex-
amples is O(2n). Ifthe determination contains dpredicates intheleft-hand side, the learner
willrequireonly O(2d)examples,areduction of O(2n d).
19.4.2 Learning and using relevanceinformation
As we stated in the introduction to this chapter, prior knowledge is useful in learning; but
it too has to be learned. In order to provide a complete story of relevance-based learning,
we must therefore provide a learning algorithm for determinations. The learning algorithm
wenowpresentisbasedonastraightforward attempttofindthesimplestdetermination con-
sistent with the observations. A determination P Q says that if any examples match on
P, then they must also match on Q. A determination is therefore consistent with a set of
examples if every pair that matches on the predicates on the left-hand side also matches on
the goal predicate. For example, suppose we have the following examples of conductance
measurements onmaterialsamples:
786 Chapter 19. Knowledgein Learning
function MINIMAL-CONSISTENT-DET(E,A)returnsasetofattributes
inputs:E,asetofexamples
A,asetofattributes,ofsizen
fori 0ton do
foreachsubset Aiof Aofsizei do
if CONSISTENT-DET?(Ai,E)thenreturn Ai
function CONSISTENT-DET?(A,E)returnsatruthvalue
inputs:A,asetofattributes
E,asetofexamples
localvariables: H,ahashtable
foreachexamplee in E do
ifsomeexamplein H hasthesamevaluesase fortheattributes A
butadifferentclassificationthenreturnfalse
storetheclassofe in H,indexedbythevaluesforattributes Aoftheexamplee
returntrue
Figure19.8 Analgorithmforfindingaminimalconsistentdetermination.
Sample Mass Temperature 