ng with specific techniques to address these issues: Bobrow [1975], Winograd [1978], Brachman and Levesque [1985], and Halpern [1986]. For especially clear discussions of specific issues on the topic of knowledge representation and use see Woods [1975] and Brachman [1985]. CHAPTER 9 USING PREDICATE LOGIC Nature cares nothing for logic, our human logic: she has her own, which we do not recognize and do not acknowledge until we are crushed under its wheel, Ivan Turgenev (1818-1883), Russian novelist and playwright In this chapter, we begin exploring one particular way of representing facts the language of logic. Other representational formalisms are discussed in later chapters. The logical formalism is appealing because it immediately suggests a powerful way of deriving new knowledge from old mathematical deduction. In this formalism, we can conclude that a new statement is true by proving that it follows from the statements that are already known. Thus the idea of a proof, as developed in mathematics as a rigorous way of demonstrating the truth of an already believed proposition, can be extended to include deduction as a way of deriving answers to questions and solutions to problems. One of the early domains in which AI techniques were explored was mechanical theorem proving, by which was meant proving statements in various areas of mathematics. For example, the Logic Theorist [Newell etal., 1963} proved theorems from the first chapter of Whitehead and Russell s Principia Mathematica [1950]. Another theorem prover (Gelernter et ai., 1963] proved theorems in geometry. Mathematical theorem proving is still an active area of AI research. (See, for example, Wos e al. {1984].) But, as we show in this chapter, the usefulness of some mathematical techniques extends well beyond the traditional scope of mathematics. It turns out that mathematics is no different from any other complex intellectual endeavor in requiring both reliable deductive mechanisms and a mass of heuristic