 The salesclerk asked him if he could help him. He said he wanted a blue shirt. The salesclerk found one and he tried it on. He paid for it and left. . Consider the following sentence: Put the red biock on the blue block on the table. (a) Show all the syntactically valid parses of this sentence. Assume any standard grammatical formalism you like. (b) How could semantic information and world knowledge be used to select the appropriate meaning of this command in a particular situation? After you-have done this, you might want to look at the discussion of this problem in Church and Patil [1982]. . Each of the following sentences is ambiguous in at least two ways. Because of the type of knowledge represented by each sentence, different target languages may be useful to characterize the different meanings. For each of the sentences, choose an appropriate target language and show how the different meanings would be represented: Everyone doesn t know everything. e John saw Mary and the boy with a telescope. John flew to New York. Write an ATN grammar that recognizes verb phrases involving auxiliary verbs. The grammar should handie such phrases as went e should have gone e had been going 332 won 9. 10. il. 12. 13. 15. 16. 17. Artificial Intelligence TE e would have been going e would go Do not expect to produce an ATN that can handle all possible verb phrases. But do design one with a reasonable structure that handles most common ones, including the ones above. The grammar should create structures that reflect the structures of the input verb phrases. . Show how the ATN of Figs 15.8 and 15.9 could be modified to handle passive sentences. : . Write the rule S NP VP in the graph notation that we defined in Section 15.2.3. Show how unification can be used to enforce number agreement between the subject and the verb. . Consider the problem of providing an English interface to a database of employee records. (a) Write a semantic grammar to define a language for this task. (b) Sh