) asked what it means to actually be an agent, and criticized all of the
historyofphilosophyfortakingthisnotionforgranted. Inthecomputerage,Alva Noe(2009)
and Andy Clark (1998, 2008) propose that our brains form a rather minimal representation
of the world, use the world itself in ajust-in-time basis to maintain the illusion of adetailed
internal model, use props in the world (such as paper and pencil as well as computers) to
increase the capabilities of the mind. Pfeifer et al. (2006) and Lakoff and Johnson (1999)
presentarguments forhowthebodyhelpsshapecognition.
The nature of the mind has been a standard topic of philosophical theorizing from an-
cient times to the present. In the Phaedo, Plato specifically considered and rejected the idea
that the mind could be an attunement orpattern of organization of the parts of the body, a
viewpoint that approximates the functionalist viewpoint in modern philosophy of mind. He
decided instead that the mind had to be an immortal, immaterial soul, separable from the
body anddifferent insubstance the viewpoint ofdualism. Aristotle distinguished avariety
ofsouls(Greek )inlivingthings,someofwhich,atleast,hedescribedinafunctionalist
manner. (See Nussbaum(1978)formoreon Aristotle s functionalism.)
Descartesisnotoriousforhisdualisticviewofthehumanmind,butironicallyhishistor-
icalinfluencewastowardmechanismandphysicalism. Heexplicitlyconceivedofanimalsas
automata, and he anticipated the Turing Test, writing it is not conceivable that a machine should produce different arrangements of words so as to give an appropriately meaningful
answer to whatever is said in its presence, as even the dullest of men can do (Descartes,
1637). Descartes s spirited defense of the animals-as-automata viewpoint actually had the
effectofmakingiteasiertoconceiveofhumansasautomataaswell,eventhoughhehimself
did not take this step. The book L Homme Machine (La Mettrie, 1748) did explicitly argue
thathumansareautomata.
Modernanalyticphilosophyhastypicallyacce