we do not know who all of them are or even how many of them there have been). The second thing we can do with intensional descriptions is to allow them to depend on parameters that can change, such as time or spatial location. If we do that, then the actual set that is represented by the description will change as a function of the value of those parameters. To see the effect of this, consider the sentence, The president of the United States used to be a Democrat, uttered when the current president is a Republican. This sentence can mean two things. The first is that the specific person who is now president was once a Democrat. This meaning can be captured straightforwardly with an extensional representation of the president of the United States. We just specify the individual. But there is a second meaning, namely that there was once someone who was the president and who was a Democrat. To represent the meaning of the president of the United States given this interpretation requires an intensional description that depends on time. Thus we might write president(t), where president is some function that maps instances of time onto instances of people, namely U.S. presidents. 4.3.5 Finding the Right Structures as Needed Recall that in Chapter 2, we briefly touched on the problem of matching rules against state descriptions during the problem-solving process. This same issue now rears its head with respect to locating appropriate knowledge structures that have been stored in memory. For example, suppose we have a script (a description of a class of events in terms of contexts, participants, and subevents) that describes the typical sequence of events in a restaurant.? This script would enable us to take a text such as John went to Steak and Ale last night. He ordered a large rare steak, paid his bill, and left. and answer yes to the question 3 We discuss such a script in detail in Chapter 10. 94 Artificial Intelligence c E SRRIL Ve ASAT I OREN RA CEA TE EE RARLS Did Jo