d for a system which requires many. diverse patterns. The SHRDLU System SHRDLU was developed by Terry Winograd as part of his doctoral work at M.I.T. (1972, 1986). The system simulates a simple robot arm that manipulates blocks on a table. During a dialog which Is interactive, the system can be asked to manipulate the block objects and build stacks or put things into a box. It can be questioned about the configuration of things on the table, about events that have transpired during the dialog, and even about its reasoning. It can also be told facts which are added to its knowledge base for later reasoning. Th unique aspect of the system is that the meanings of words and phrases are encoded into procedures that are activated by input sentences. Furthermore, the 266 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 syntactic and semantic analysis, as well as the reasoning process are more closely integrated. The system can be roughly divided into four component domains: (I) a syntactic parser which is governed by a large English (systemic type) grammar. (2) a semantic component of programs that interpret the meanings of words and structures, (3) a cognitive deduction component used to examine consequences of facts, carry Out commands, and find answers, and (4) an English response generation component. In addition, there is a knowledge base containing blocks world knowledge, and a model of Its own reasoning process. used to explain its actions. Knowledge is represented with FOPL-likestatements which give the state of the world at any particular time and procedures for changing and reasoning about the state. For example. the expressions (IS bi block) (IS b2 pyramid) (AT b (LOCATION 120 120 0)) (SUPPORT bl b2) (CIEARTOP b2( (MANIPULATE bi) (IS blue color) contain facts describing that bl is a block. b2 is a pyramid, and hi supports h2. There are also procedural expressions to perform different tasks such as clear the top or manipulate an object. The ('LEARTOP expression is essentiall