le in the tropical areas in fact do not know snow first hand, and can only try and imagine its soft crunchy and cold touch. We use numeric suffixes to create unique constants in order to avoid the possibility of ambiguity in reference. Or categories made up of collections of reified objects. And are we too? See http: www.w3.org RDF and http: www.w3schools.com rdf default.asp See for example, Primer: Getting into RDF Semantic Web using N3. http: www.w3.org 2000 10 swap Primer.html 8 http: dublincore.org documents demi-terms 9 http: www.w3.org wiki SweolG TaskForces CommunityProjects LinkingOpenData 10 http: www.w3.org blog SWEO 11 http: creativecommons.org 12 http: raJweb.org foat 13 http: thedatahub.org group lodcloud 14 A clickable version is available at http: richard.cyganiak.de 2007 10 lod loddatasets 2010-09-22.htm 15 See http: www.w3.org TR rdf-sparqi-query 16 In the next chapter we will introduce the notion of classes that will stand for abstractions of individual elements. Classes will be defined as intensions based on their properties. 17 Apparently as a young student McCulloch was asked by Quaker Rufus Jones as to what he intended to become and what he planned to do, to which he replied f have no idea, but there is one question would like to answer. What is a number, that a man may know it, and a man that may know a number? . Jones, it seems, smiled and told him that he was going to be busy for the rest of his life. 18 Unless you are a bus driver in Chennai, in which case you often see it as green. 19 The squares of the chessboard are usually labeled a-h from left to right and 1-8 from bottom to top as seen by the white player. In using the values the values e8 and c6 we have assumed that white is sitting below the board. Instead of introducing a new predicate or fluent like planToRide one could introduce a generic EC predicate Try(event, time) as was done by Allen (1991) in the Event Calculus to accommodate actions. One could then introduce a rule that sa