i dimensional and far too complex to visuafize. A highly fit population could multiply too fast and destroy other essential species of populations that are responsible for maintaining nature's subtle equilibrium. Notice the way Homo sapiens have been successful in wiping out of some species. Under such conditions a heavy and dynamic mutation occurs within the algorithm (!) but in a different form as catastrophes or calamities that wipe out both the good and the bad allowing the algorithm to start the search anew. Can this be attributed to a Malthusian trap or the Noah's Ark or the impending doomsday, which people predict? This is anyone's guess! EXERCISES EI 09 RRO 8 SOIR I BART OBB EADONOH LRENAULS Sev EON TERS a D RHOV EL Sew Mba PERSO OG? Meweazgy oe SEMEL? BIE eb te TE Tete Me Ff Saag hemes Pee an BAGrbueneg ede ESTE Gate? Meme agyee 28 1. Generating a time table for an academic curriculum is a complex problem if we consider the priorities (preferred time of class, course, etc.) of faculty members and available resources (class rooms, free time, etc.). Several attempts have been made to apply Genetic algorithms for the generation of an optimal or near optimal time table. Try formulating this problem to suit the genetic algorithm. Decide on the representatian of the chromosome, the crossover points and how both crossover and mutation should be realized in the search for the optimal goal. 2. In the animal world, the ant, grasshopper, the centipede and the millipede move using different gaits and stances. These probably evolved after several generations. Can we make a multi-legged robot learn to find the best and most stable gait? Use a Genetic Algorithm to simulate aid this robot to learn how to achieve optimal locomotion. 3. How would you go about embedding the above genetic algorithm into a real multi-legged robot (imagine a millipede or a centipede-like robot) so that it will evolve and learn to find the best gait in the real world? CHAPTER 24 ARTIFICIAL IMMUNE