e are too slow to solve our problems (Grand, 1998; Goldberg, 2002). If we are to devise GAs that work, we have to put in more structure to guide the search. (Goldberg, 2002) defines competent GAs as follows. The primary objective is to design what we call competent genetic algorithms. A GA is called competent if it can solve hard problems quickly, accurately, and reliably. Each of these can be quantified further, but qualitatively, hard problems are those that have large subsolutions that must be discovered whole, badly scaled subsolutions, many different local optima, a high degree of subsolution interaction, or a lot of external noise or stochasticity. In short, we are interested in designing effective solvers for the class of nearly decomposable problems (Simon, 1969). Speed, accuracy, and reliability requires that we get to nearglobal or high-quality solutions in times that grow as a polynomial function of the number of decision variables with high probability. The competent GA is centred around decomposing problems into subproblems and finding subsolutions of those subproblems and combing them to build the solution. The subsolutions are called Building Blocks (BB). This is clearly different from the GAs described in this chapter because it looks for ways to find and preserve BBs. Unconstrained GAs will take too long ? a time to do this. Clearly, the design of GAs that will find solutions in reasonable time is still in the realm of being an art form. Having expressed the above caveat, we would like to observe that the dual process of recombination and selection is the only known approach to creativity. Moreover, reports on the study of human creativity have repeatedly thrown up the notion that innovation and creativity arise when humans combine and recombine ideas, often subconsciously; and have the ability to latch onto a good idea when it does emerge. We look at some of the evidence reported below. The French mathematician Hadamard (1954) has attributed innova