rely excitatory or purely inhibitory. Neuron A cannot excite neuron B while inhibiting neuron C. e Neurons communicate through their firing rates, which range from a few spikes per second to perhaps 500 spikes per second. Neuron firing is asynchronous; there appears to be no global clock. There are two types of neural summation: (1) spatial summation, in which the effects of various connecting neurons are added together and (2) temporal summation, in which asynchronously arriving impulses are likely to cause a neuron to fire when they all arrive closely together in time. As a corollary of (2), one neuron can have a very great effect on another by firing very rapidly. e Some behavioral functions, such as vision and language, appear localised in the brain. Destruction of small portions of the brain can result in complete inability to perform certain cognitive tasks. e The human brain has at least 150 billion neurons and probably 1000 to 10,000 connections per neuron. The brain of a rat is 700 times smaller. The proportion of the brain taken up by the cortex is much larger in humans than in rats. Neurons are not connected symmetrically: if the axon of neuron A leads to neuron B, then the axon of neuron B probably does not lead back to neuron A. There are many different types of neurons. Some types do not project out of their local area of the brain, while the axons of other types travel long distances. Life is a one-player game invented by John Conway. The game is played on an infinite twodimensional grid of square cells. At any given time, a cell is either living or dead. Patterns of cells transform themselves according to a simple set of rules: Connectionist Models 407 i ee) Ifacell is living, it continues to live if surrounded by exactly three living cells. If it is surrounded by more than three living cells, it dies of overcrowding; if less than two of its neighbors is alive, it dies of loneliness. Ifa cell is dead, it becomes living only if it is surrounded by exa