nstructed a new tour and the pheromone trails will be updated as follows, T(t m) (1p) TO A t t. t m) (4.7) where 0 1 is the coefficient of pheromone evaporation. By choosing an appropriate value of p, one can control how long the effect of pheromone deposit will last. The second term in the above equation is the sum of the total pheromone deposited by all the ants on the segment from the city to the jth city during this cycle, computed as follows, for m ants. Aft. ttn) D" AT. tn) (4.8) k 1 The amount of pheromone deposited by the kn ant is given by, At (t.t n) Q L, if the k ant travels on the segment i-j 0 otherwise (4.9) where Q is a constant, and L,is the cost of the tour found by the kant. Initially t;(0) is set to a small value A for all segments. The basic outline of the ACO algorithm for TSP is described in Figure 4.25. TSPACO () 1 Initialize 1,,;(0) A for all segments i-j in the problem 2 repeat 3 Construct the tour for each of the m ants 4 Remember the best tour when a better one is found 5 Update the pheromone levels for each segment 1,,(t n) 6 until some termination criteria 7 return the best tour FIGURE 4.25 In the ACO algorithm for TSP, a set of m ants construct tours by a greedy algorithm that moves probabilistically to the next city. After the tour construction, each ant deposits pheromone inversely proportional to the cost of its tour. This process is repeated a number of times, retaining the best tour found. Each ant constructs a tour in a greedy manner. It starts at some city, and at each stage moves from the city to an allowed neighbour with a certain probability governed by the amount of pheromone ,(t) on the i j segment, and njits heuristic estimate of how good the segment i j is. The probability of the ko ant moving from the city to the city is given by, () ingP eu mali if j allowed, (f) RO ) D pl TOF Oma ) (4.10) allowed, (f) 0 otherwise where allowed ,(f) tabu,() , and nj 1 distance(city,, city;) also called the visibility of cityrom city;. Th