evelopment of a new class of systems: knowledge-based systems. Knowledge-based systems use specialized sets of coded knowledge to "reason" and perform limited intelligent tasks. This is in constrast with more conventional type programs which rely on data and general algorithms (weak methods) to solve less intelligent tasks. Knowledge-based systems proved to be much more successful than the earlier, more general problem solving systems. They proved to be more effective in most areas of Al including computer vision, natural language understanding, planning, and problem solving using the newly developed rule-based expert systems. In concert with the knowledge-base theme, this book is mainly about knowledge and the role it plays in creating effective Al programs. It focuses on all aspects of 'knowledge: knowledge representation methods, knowledge acquisition techniques, knowledge organization, and knowledge manipulation. It illustrates the basic knowledge-system approach and emphasizes the important use of knowledge in such systems. This book was written as a text for my classes in artificial intelligence at the University of Texas at El Paso. These classes are for upper division undergraduate and first year graduate students. The courses assume prerequisites of basic computer science courses (like programming languages) and a general maturity in mathematics. xl" Preface xlv The material may be used as a one semester survey course in Al or as a two semester sequel with basic Al principles and tools being taught the first semester and special topics such as vision, natural language understanding, machine learning, and expert systems architectures taught the second semester. The book is comprehensive in its coverage of all the important topic areas of Al. and no particular bias is given to any special area or approach. The treatment of knowledge acquisition and machine learning is much more comprehensive than that found in other introductory texts on Al. And computer visi