en and the process terminates. If, however, the sentence had been John went to the park with the fountain. the process would not have stopped since a fountain is inanimate and cannot move. Then the third possibility would have been considered. Since parks can have fountains, it would be accepted and the process would terminate there. For a more detailed description of the way a conceptual processor based on CD works, see Schank [1973], Rieger [1975], and Riesbeck [1975]. This example illustrates both the strengths and the weaknesses of this approach to sentence understanding. Because a great deal of semantic information is exploited in the understanding process, sentences that would be ambiguous to a purely syntactic parser can be assigned a unique interpretation. Unfortunately, the amount of semantic information that is required to do this job perfectly is immense. All simple rules have exceptions. For example, suppose the conceptual processor described above were given the sentence John went to the park with the peacocks. | Natural Language Processing 309 Since peacocks are animate, they would be acceptable as additional actors of the main verb, went. Thus, the interpretation that would be produced would be that shown in Fig. 15.17(a), while the more likely interpretation, in which John went to a park containing peacocks, is shown in Fig. 15.17(b). But if the possible roles for a prepositional phrase introduced by with were considered in the order necessary for this sentence to be interpreted correctly, then the previous example involving the phrase, with Mary, would have been misunderstood. John <> p TRANS = -John 2T park-= speciic A peacocks specific John went to the park with the peacocks. {a) p D park ~ with peacocks John <> PTRANS ~+ John 2 John went to the park with the peacocks. {b) Fig. 15.17 Two CD Interpretations of a Sentence The problem is that the simple check for the property ANIMATE is not sufficient to determine acceptability as an additional actor