TE)-. 150-GALLONSII 7.6 The original primitives of conceptual dependency theory developed by Schank fail to represent some important concepts directly. What additional primitives can you discover that would be useful? 7.7 Create a movie script similar to the supermarket script of Figure 7.11. 7.8 What are the main differences between scripts and frame structures? 7.9 Express the following sentences as conceptual dependency structures. a. Bill is a programmer. b. Sam gave Mary a box of candy. C. Charlie drove the pickup fast. 7.10 Create a frame network for terrestrial motor vehicles (cars, trucks, motorcycles) and give one complete frame in detail for carswhich includes the slots for the main component II146 Structured Knowledge: Graphs, Frames. and Related Structures Chap. 7 parts, their attributes, and relations between parts. Include an as-heeded slot for the gas of each type mileage. 7.11 Write a LISP program to create a frame data structure which represents the car crarne of Problem 7.10. 7.12 Compare the inference process using frames to that of inference in FOPL. Give examples of both. -- / - r-dif LU] Object-Oriented Representations The previous chapter marked a departure from the approaches to knowledge representation of earlier chapters in that the methods there focused on adding Structure to the, knowledge. Structure was added by linking concepts through relations and clustering together all related knowledge about an object. In some cases, as with frames, procedures related to the knowledge were also attached to the knowledge cluster. The approach in grouping knowledge and related procedures together into a Cohesive unit is carried even further with object-oriented systems which we examine in some detail in this chapter. 8.1 1N1R000CTION Grouping related knowledge together in Al systems gains some of the same cognitive advantages realized in the human brain. The knowledge required for a given cognitive task is usually quite limited in domain and scope. T