ute values possessed by all objects are useful for forming categories but poor for identifying an object within the category. Truly intelligent methods of indexing will be content associative and usually require some inferring. Like humans, a system may fail to locate an Item when it has been modified in memory. In such cases, cues related to the item may be needed. For example, you may fail to remember whether or not you hav, ever discussed American politics with a foreigner until you have considered under what circumstances you may have talked with freigners (at a university, while traveling or living abroad, or just a chance meeting). An example of this type of indexing strategy is discussed in Section 11.4. 113 INTEGRATING KNOWLEDGE IN MEMORY Integrating new knowledge in traditional data bases is accomplished by simply adding an item to its key location, deleting an item from a key directed location, or modifying fields of an existing item with specific input information. When an item in inventory is replaced with a new one. its description is changed accordingly. When an iern 220 Knowledge Organization and Management Chap. 11 is added to memory, its index is computed and it is stored at the corresponding address More sophisticated memory systems will continuously monitor a knowledge base and make inferred changes as appropriate. We have seen one example of memory reorganization in the truth maintenance systems (TMS) described in Chapter 5. The primary purpose of those systems, however, is maintaining consistency among the knowledge units, not reorganization and recall. A more comprehensive management system will perform other functions as well, including (I)the formation of new conceptual structures. (2) the computation and association of causal linkages between related concepts. (3) generalization of items having common features and the formation of specialized conceptual categories, and (4) specialization of concepts that have been over-generalized. Examples 