 from them. The new clause represents ways that the two parent clauses interact with each other. Suppose that there are two clauses in the system: winter \/ summer awinter \/ cold Recall that this means that both clauses must be true (i.e., the clauses, although they look independent, are really conjoined). Now we observe that precisely one of winter and swinter will be true at any point. If winzer is true, then cold must be true to guarantee the truth of the second clause. If swinter is true, then summer must be true to guarantee the truth of the first clause. Thus we see that from these two clauses we can deduce summer \/ cold This is the deduction that the resolution procedure will make. Resolution operates by taking two clauses that each contain the same literal, in this example, winter. The literal must occur in positive form in one clause and in negative form in the other. The resolvent is obtained by combining all of the literals of the two parent clauses except the ones that cancel. If the clause that is produced is the empty clause, then a contradiction has been found. For example, the two clauses winter awinter will produce the empty clause. If a contradiction exists, then eventually it will be found. Of course, if no contradiction exists, it is possible that the procedure will never terminate, although as we wilil see, there are often ways of detecting that no contradiction exists. So far, we have discussed only resolution in prepositional logic. In predicate logic, the situation is more complicated since we must consider all possible ways of substituting values for the variables. The theoretical basis of the resolution procedure in predicate logic is Herbrand s theorem [Chang and Lee, 1973], which tells us the following: Using Predicate Logic 113 To show that a set of clauses S is unsatisfiable, it is necessary to consider only interpretations over a particular set, called the Herbrand universe of S. A set of clauses S is unsatisfiable if and only if a f