ply your chosen algorithm to compute an optimal sequence of actions for a 3 3
worldwhoseinitialstatehasdirtinthethreetopsquares andtheagentinthecenter.
c. Constructasearchagentforthevacuumworld,andevaluate itsperformance inasetof
3 3worldswithprobability 0.2ofdirtineachsquare. Include thesearchcostaswell
aspathcostintheperformance measure,usingareasonable exchange rate.
d. Compare your best search agent with a simple randomized reflex agent that sucks if
thereisdirtandotherwise movesrandomly.
e. Consider what would happen if the world were enlarged to n n. How does the per-
formanceofthesearchagentandofthereflexagentvarywith n?
3.21 Proveeachofthefollowingstatements, orgiveacounterexample:
a. Breadth-firstsearchisaspecialcaseofuniform-cost search.
b. Depth-firstsearchisaspecialcaseofbest-firsttreesearch. c. Uniform-costsearchisaspecial caseof A search.
118 Chapter 3. Solving Problemsby Searching 3.22 Compare the performance of A and RBFS on a set of randomly generated problems
inthe8-puzzle(with Manhattandistance)and TSP(with MST see Exercise3.30)domains.
Discussyourresults. Whathappenstotheperformance of RBF Swhenasmallrandomnum-
berisaddedtotheheuristic valuesinthe8-puzzle domain? 3.23 Trace the operation of A search applied to the problem of getting to Bucharest from
Lugojusing thestraight-line distance heuristic. Thatis, show thesequence ofnodes that the
algorithm willconsiderandthe f,g,andhscoreforeachnode. 3.24 Deviseastatespaceinwhich A using GRAPH-SEARCH returnsasuboptimalsolution
withanh(n)function thatisadmissible butinconsistent.
HEURISTICPATH 3.25 The heuristic path algorithm (Pohl, 1977) is a best-first search in which the evalu-
ALGORITHM
ation function is f(n) (2 w)g(n) wh(n). For what values of w is this complete?
Forwhat values is it optimal, assuming that h is admissible? What kind of search does this
perform forw 0,w 1,andw 2?
3.26 Considertheunbounded version oftheregular2Dgridshownin Figure3.9. Thestart
stateisattheorigin, (0,0),andthegoalstatei