njunction operator without negation. A Simple Conceptual Graph may be described using the vocabulary or support as follows. Definition A support is a 4-tuple S (T , Tp, , T) where, Tc is a finite, partially ordered set of distinct concept types. The partial order defines a taxonomy with T as the universal type that is the supremum of the concept lattice. For the sake of completeness, we also define the absurd type that forms the infimum of the concept lattice. Tris a finite, partially ordered set of distinct relation types. The two sets Tc and Tp are disjoint. Each relation R Tp has arity 2 (in the case of SCGs), and holds between two elements of the concept type. For each R, a pair of concepts (C1p,Cap) Tox Te defines the highest (most general) type of concepts that may be related by R. All pairs (C1p,C2R) are called star graphs. If Ry Rothen Cie: Cipro and Cor: S Coro. Like in the case of the concept hierarchy, we also define the supremum and infimum for the relation types. 1 is a set of distinct individual markers that refer to a specified individual. The generic marker refers to an unspecified individual. Tis amapping from to Tc specifying instances of concepts. The support or vocabulary encompasses all concepts, individuals and relations that are used to build the simple, conceptual graphs. Figure 14.42 illustrates the concept and relation lattices that form the support for an example, conceptual graph domain. ENTITY LIVING FOOD NON-LIVING a Hes PREDATOR PREY PUB: Ss 2 BREAD KA mY TOWN VILL? or iS SON GOAT 5 BUS READ co EAT DIRECTION DE T OBJECT FIGURE 14.42 An example concept lattice (top) and a relation lattice (below) that forms the support for CGS. Some of the star graphs for the support of Figure 14.42 are given below. Event (Agent) Living Eat (A-Eat) Living Go (A-Ge) Living Go (Dest) Loc Eat (Carnivere) Predatcr Read (A-Read) Human Go (Dest) Loc Read (O-Read) Book Eat - (O-Eat) Focd Go (Instr) Pub-Trans Given two SCGs, G and H defined on the same support,