 belongs. This serves to overcome a local optimumi trap. If the mutant has a lesser value of fitness, it will gradually fade out of the pool as Reproduction will ensure that it is not taken up for offspring generation. In an n-dimensional search space, a change in one of the dimensional values will force a random jump and hopefully guide the process away from a local optimum. . 23.4 TERMINATION PARAMETERS Evolution, in the real world of nature, is a continuous process. In the world of computing, how long do we continue goading the GA to churn solutions, is a problem to be sorted out. In the first and second problems, we do know the maximum fitness values (fortunately!), We therefore converge the moment a solution reports this fitness. In most cases (like the third problem), this value remains unknown. We therefore stop the search when we feel that there has not been an improvement in either the maximum or average fitness (as the case may be) of the population over several generations. The GA is then said to have done its work, though there is never a guarantee-that the global optimum has been found. Running GAs with different values of p,,, p, and N is thus strongly advised in such cases. The results obtained from each of these sets will allow us to visualize the terrain of the search space. 23.5 NICHING AND SPECIATION ' So far we have discussed problems that look into optimization of just one parameter (unimodal). There are several complex problems wherein a set of parameters (multimodal) that may be dependent on each other is to be optimized. Such multiobjective optimization problems are known to use niching a concept based on the _ mechanics of nature's ecosystems. In nature, animals compete to survive in a system by hunting, feeding and breeding. This causes the evolution of different species to cater to each role. A niche can thus be viewed as a subspace in the environment that can support several types of life forms. A group, of individuals that possess simila