 be used to describe other kinds of knowledge. For example, physical objects, which in CD are simply represented as atomic units, have been analyzed in Lehnert [1978]. A similar analysis of social actions is provided in Schank and Carbonell [1979}. These theories continue the style of representation pioneered by CD, but they have not yet been subjected to the same amount of empirical investigation (i.e,, use in real programs) as CD. We have discussed the theory of conceptual dependency in some detail in order to illustrate the behavior of a knowledge representation system built around a fairly small set of specific primitive elements. But CD is not the only such theory to have been developed and used in AI programs. For another example of a primitivebased system, see Wilks [1972]. 10.2 SCRIPTS CD is a mechanism for representing and reasoning about events. But rarely do events occur in isolation. In this section, we present a mechanism for representing knowledge about common sequences of events. A script is a structure that describes a stereotyped sequence of events in a particular context. A script consists of a set of slots. Associated with each slot may be some information about what kinds of values it may contain as well as a default value to be used if no other information is available. So far, this definition of a script looks very similar to that of a frame given in Section 9.2, and at this level of detail, the two structures are identical. But now, because of the specialized role to be played by a script, we can make some more precise statements about its structure. Strong Slot-and-Filler Structures 213 n N NNN ERTIES Figure 10.5 shows part of a typical script, the restaurant script (taken from Schank and Abelson [1977]). It illustrates the important components of a script: Entry conditions Conditions that must, in general, be satisfied before the events described in the script can occur, Result Conditions that will, in general, be true after the events descr