s how the sound energy is distributed over the auditory frequency range as a function of time. In this example, you can see two different patterns, each produced by the word alpha. Even when we ignore the variability of the speech signal, natural languages admit variability because of their richness. This is particularly noticeable when mapping from a natural language (with its richness of structure and vocabulary) to a small, simple target representation. So, for example, we might find many-to-one mappings, such as the following one. occurring in the English front end to a keyword data retrieval system: Fig. 14.2 Relative Differences in Pictures of the Same Scene KHz n Alpha gets Alpha SEC Fig. 14.3 Differences in Speech Signals Understanding 275 AREER YOON ISRAELS NCES Tell me all about the last presidential ~ election. (SEARCH d like to see all the KEYWORDS = stories on the last ~ ELECTION presidential election. & PRESIDENT) Tam interested in the last presidential oad election. Many-to-one mappings require that the understanding system know about all the ways that a target representation can be expressed in the source language. As a result, they typically require a structured analysis of the input rather than a simple, exact pattern match. But they often do not require much other knowledge. One-to-many mappings, on the other hand, often require a great deal of domain knowledge (in addition to the input itself) in order to make the correct choice among the available target representations. An example of such a mapping (in which the input can be said to be ambiguous) is the following sentence: > (They are (flying airplanes)} > (They (are flying) airplanes) They are flying planes. od (They are (flying planing-tools)) > {They (are flying) planing-tools) Notice that although this sentence, taken in isolation, is ambiguous, it would usually not be interpreted as being ambiguous by a human listener in a specific context. Clues, both from previous sentences and from the 