
possible perceptsequence.
It is instructive to consider why the table-driven approach to agent construction is
doomed to failure. Let P be the set of possible percepts and let T be the lifet(cid:2)ime of the
agent(thetotalnumberofperceptsitwillreceive). Thelookuptablewillcontain T P t
t 1
entries. Consider the automated taxi: the visual input from a single camera comes in at the
rate of roughly 27 megabytes per second (30 frames per second, 640 480 pixels with 24
bitsofcolorinformation). Thisgivesalookup table withover10250,000,000,000 entries foran
hour s driving. Even the lookup table for chess a tiny, well-behaved fragment of the real
world would have at least 10150 entries. The daunting size of these tables (the number of
atoms in the observable universe is less than 1080) means that (a) no physical agent in this
universe willhavethespacetostorethetable, (b)thedesignerwouldnothavetimetocreate
the table, (c)no agent could everlearn allthe right table entries from itsexperience, and (d)
even if the environment is simple enough to yield a feasible table size, the designer still has
noguidance abouthowtofillinthetableentries.
Despite all this, TABLE-DRIVEN-AGENT does do what we want: it implements the
desired agent function. The key challenge for AI is to find out how to write programs that,
to the extent possible, produce rational behavior from a smallish program rather than from
a vast table. We have many examples showing that this can be done successfully in other
areas: forexample,thehugetablesofsquarerootsusedbyengineersandschoolchildrenprior
to the 1970s have now been replaced by a five-line program for Newton s method running
on electronic calculators. The question is, can AI do for general intelligent behavior what
Newtondidforsquareroots? Webelievetheanswerisyes.
In the remainder of this section, we outline four basic kinds of agent programs that
embodytheprinciples underlying almostallintelligent systems: Simplereflexagents; Model-based reflexagents; Goal