 fictitious set of facts. Nira spoke either to Prashant or to Barkha. Barkha spoke either to Kapil or to Azad. Vir spoke either to Vinod or to Nira. If Nira spoke to Prashant, the culprit is Nitish. If Nira spoke to Barkha, the culprit is in Chennai. ARON . If Barkha spoke to Kapil, the culprit is Singh. . If both Singh and Nitish are the culprits, the document is in Patna. . If Vir spoke to Vinod, the culprit is Surinder. . If Vir spoke to Nira then the story got published. 10. Smiley said that the document is in Delhi. 11. If Smiley said the document is in Delhi then the document is in Delhi. 12. The document cannot be both in Patna and Delhi at the same time. Given the either-or statements 1 to 3, let us say a reasoning system makes some assumptions about one of the constituents in these statements and derives the consequences. The reasoning, let us say, happens as in the following sequence. We have not stated the rules of inference used here, but the reader is encouraged to formalize the derivation of the contradiction. 13. Nira spoke to Prashant; Assumption 14. Barkha spoke to Kapil; Assumption 15. Vir spoke to Vinod; Assumption 16. Nitish is the Culprit; Logic rule ; 4, 13 17. Singh is the Culprit; Logic rule ; 6, 14 18. The document is in Patna; Logic rule ; 7, 16, 17 19. Surinder is the Culprit; Logic rule ; 8, 15 20. The document is in Delhi; Logic rule ; 19, 11 21. Contradiction; Logic rule ; 12, 18, 20 At this point, a contradiction has been signalled, and the reasoner needs to backtrack. The dependency diagram based on the justifications looks as in Figure 17.19. In the figure, sentences in ovals represent beliefs. Sentences in ovals with open arrows leading into them are premises and need no justification. A special node containing stands for a contradiction. Assumptions are depicted in rectangular boxes. Dashed arrows represent any other inference chains that could have been constructed, but are not depicted here. The TMS provides the following service