. As it is getting apparent by now, language verbs get associated with compound CD structures. Another set of verbs, dealing with mental actions, also translate to causal relationships. These are words like prevent, instigate, hurt, comfort, advise and threaten. We look at the representation of the last one. Conceptually the act of threatening is to communicate by some means to someone that if they do some particular thing the response by the threatener will not be pleasant for them. Here, in Figure 13.13, x is threatening y. x MTRANS 2 f y conc 2 y doy i x dox y HEALTH ( 0) t FIGURE 13.13 Threatening is a communication act in which a person conveys dire consequences of doing something to another person. Words like love, hate and like are also not conceptual actions, but causal connections. When Sheeri says that she loves Farhad, she is saying that when she thinks of him she goes into a state of being pleased or happy. When Abasi says he likes ice cream, he means that he conceptualizes that if he were to eat ice cream then that would result in him going to a pleased state. This may be represented as in Figure 13.14. The act of throwing something can be represented as PTRANSing it in the air using the instrumental act of PROPEL and GRASP. So if we said that Adriana threw a pencil towards Ayumu , then we could represent it as shown in Figure 13.15. Abasi CONC fe) Abasi Abasi ic I INGEST pleased ice cream FIGURE 13.14 Liking ice cream is thinking that one will be pleased on eating it. P 5 . D Ayumu Adriana PTRANS 2 pencil P Adriana p a Adriana PROPEL 2 pencil WX D air Adriana Ayumu FIGURE 13.15 Throwing something is PROPELing it through the air. The above formula diagram represents the act of throwing the pencil in the direction of Ayumu. This could be part of a larger conceptualization. If Adriana s intention was to give the pencil to Ayumu then the above would be the instrumental act for an ATRANS action. If on the other hand, the pencil was thrown with the objective