otion invoked in modern cinema, especially Indian cinema, when the protagonist yields to his? rage and overcomes injustice against all odds. Veer Rasa Or the heroic sentiment (in the hearts of the audience) arises chiefly out of utsah, or enthusiasm. This could be due to good unselfish deeds being depicted, or evoked by valour against enemies. Bhayanak Rasa The sentiment of fear, when confronted with dreadful and terrible creatures like monsters, witches and ferocious animals. Karuna Rasa Arises out of grief or soka, is the foundation of a tragedy. It may arise out of loss of dear ones, an epidemic, an earthquake, or a tsunami. Veebhatsa Rasa Is the dominant emotion of disgust, making the rasika turn her face away. Often invoked by a gruesome scene, but could also be a result of someone s abominable behaviour. Adbhut Rasa The sense of wonder one feels, for example, while watching Carl Sagan talk evokingly of the cosmos, or when a child beholds a blossoming valley of flowers, so well depicted in many an animation film. Shanta Rasa Peace, quietude, detachment, the feeling of calmness, was not included by Bharata amongst the eight rasas and discussed separately, perhaps because it is the opposite of drama. In the CD theory we might describe it as surprise(0) A disgust(0) A fear (0) A anger (0) A consciousness( 0). Vatsalya Rasa Or parental love, was probably added later to the existing rasas. The objects of parental love are often children, who evoke these feelings in adults by their carefree laughter and innocent and disarming manner. The nine rasas are known as the navarasas and probably form a significant part of the curriculum of any Bharatanatyam student. 13.6.3 Conceptual Dependency ACTs Rather than use the plethora of verbs in natural languages to stand for actions, Roger Schank s CD theory used a small set of conceptual actions. These conceptual actions could be combined in different way into to build conceptualizations that could capture real world events. In 