s at the lower-level details of any one of them, it has been called length-first search. Clearly, the assignment of appropriate criticality values is crucial to the success of this hierarchical planning method. Those preconditions that no operators can satisfy are clearly the most critical. For example, if we are trying to solve a problem involving a robot moving around in a house and we are considering the operator PUSH-THROUGHDOOR, the precondition that there exist a door big enough for the robot to get through is of high criticality since there is (in the normal situation) nothing we can do about it if it is not true. But the precondition that the door be open is of lower criticality if we have the operator OPEN-DOOR. In order for a hierarchical planning system to work with STRIPS-like mules, it must be told, in addition to the rules themselves, the appropriate criticality value for each term that may occur in a precondition. Given these values, the basic Planning 269 process can function in very much the same way that nonhierarchical planning does. But effort will not be wasted filling in the details of plans that do not even come close to solving the problem. 13.7. REACTIVE SYSTEMS So far, we have described a deliberative planning process, in which a plan for completing an entire task is constructed prior to action. There is a very different way, though, that we could approach the problem of deciding what to do. The idea of reactive systems [Brooks, 1986, Agre and Chapman, 1987; Kaebling, 1987] is to avoid planning altogether, and instead use the observable situation as a clue to which one can simply Teact, A reactive system must have access to a knowledge base of some sort that describes what actions should be taken under what circumstances. A reactive system is very different from the other kinds of planning systems we have discussed because it chooses actions one at a time; it does not anticipate and select an entire action sequence before it does the first 