 we move further up we can call creatures intelligent when they can reflect upon their world, their own existence, their goals, the situation, and what they need to do. Intelligence in Silicon? Let us return to the second question: can intelligence exist outside our cranium? Answering no to this question would imply that there is something special in our brains or that goes on inside our brains, and which is exclusive to it. There have been arguments made along these lines, most notably by the celebrated mathematical physicist Roger Penrose who, talking about the structure of the human brain writes: One of the things that excites me about microtubules is that they are tubes and further on t may well be that, within the tubes, there is some kind of large-scale, quantum coherent activity... (Penrose, 1997). Essentially Penrose is saying that there is something going on in our brains that current-day physics cannot explain, but these objections are hypothetical, and contested by many, including his own collaborator Stephen Hawking (Hawking, 1997). To answer yes to the question, one has to either accept the reductionist argument, similar to the one proposed by Turing, that whatever happens in the brain can be reduced to simple enough processes that can be duplicated. The other approach would be a constructive one, to demonstrate the possibility by actually building an intelligent system. Intelligence may be an innate capability to understand and comprehend the world around us, reason about it, make plans, and communicate with other intelligent beings. Intelligent behaviour is the manifestation of intelligence, when an agent operates in some environment. As we have observed during the course of this book, the key to intelligent behaviour is having a large amount of knowledge. Can we talk of intelligence in a specific domain? What about the Turing test then? Can we hope to get knowledge in all domains? Or should we settle for domain-specific intelligence? What about human