n observed by many people that meaning and understanding is a layered process. In his ode to Darwin and Turing, Dennett (2012) introduces the notion of sorta (a kind of sort of) that can be used to describe how one layer looks at the lower one without getting into philosophical conundrums of how meaning arises. The CPU of a computer does not understand arithmetic but can add two numbers for the upper layer. A spellchecker in your word processor does not know English but somehow can spot spelling errors. A route finding application does some search at a lower level and gives you the directions to your destination on the map. The idea is that at each level the calling process (the upper level) can believe that the lower level sorta understands what it is doing. We define the semantics of first order logic statements as an interpretation over a domain. At a higher level the semantics of natural language may be defined by statements in first order logic. Hierarchical systems too embody such layered meanings. At one level, one might plan a trip to another city, but catching a train may be defined by lower level actions. At the bottom most level in a computer, one can say that machine code is being executed, while in our brains neurons are firing. The meaning only emerges at higher levels. In the words of Dennett, The humanoid robot and the hand calculator are both made of the same basic, unthinking, unfeeling Turing-bricks, but as we compose them into larger, more competent structures, which then become the elements of still more competent structures at higher levels, we eventually arrive at parts so (sorta) intelligent that they can be assembled into competences that deserve to be called comprehending. Is there a threshold level layer above which one can claim true understanding and intelligence or is it just that some agents and people are more intelligent and comprehending than others? Self Awareness Indian philosophy has been focused on understanding the universe and