ener might make the connections as shown. The task of understanding stories can then be seen as finding the connections between sentences. Sometimes, as in the above figure for example, the story begins with a stated goal. But often it may not. To make sense of such stories, one must keep a set of permanent goals that people always have. These are goals like happiness, wealth, possessions, maintenance of health, and recurring goals like satisfying hunger. A program called Plan Applier Mechanism (PAM) was written by Robert Wilensky for his doctoral thesis at Yale (Wilensky, 1981; 1983). The knowledge of relations between plans, goals and actions was represented in the form of rules, called requests. The rules have the following form. Action Plan Plan Goal Goal Plan The rules or requests are explanatory or abductive in nature. The reading of the rule AZEP is if one sees or hears about the action A, then maybe A is happening as a part of the plan Ps. And likewise, for rules relating plans to goals, and goals to plans. Each active request of the form pattern action specifies two things' . One, the pattern that signifies PAM s expectation in terms of the conceptualization PAM expects to see. At any given moment, PAM may have more than one active request waiting for input. Each request has an expectation attached. The other thing that the request specifies is the action , which is the processing to be done when the expectation is met, that is, the expected conceptualization appears in the input. The action may be the creation of new requests, filling up of slots in some structure, adding to the story representation or deleting other requests. Slots are called gaps in the Yale group literature. There is a special gap called the nput gap that serves as the immediate memory for PAM. Processing of a natural language sentence begins by ELI (Riesbeck, 1975) parsing the input sentence and placing the resulting conceptualization in the Input gap. PAM then works in three modes. 1.