thy, 1986] attempts to solve this problem by ranking predicates by the order in which they should be minimized. How could you use this idea to indicate a preference as to which extension to prefer? Consider the problem of finding clothes to wear in the morning. To solve this problem, it is necessary to use knowledge such as: Wear jeans unless either they are dirty or you have a job interview today. Wear a sweater if it s cold. It s usually cold in the winter. Wear sandals if it s warm. e Jt s usually warm in the summer. (a) Build a JTMS-style database of the necessary facts to solve this problem. (6) Show how the problem can be solved and how the solution changes as the relevant facts (such as time of year and dirtiness of jeans) change. Show how a JTMS could be used in medical diagnosis. Consider rules such as, If you have a runny nose, assume you have a cold unless it is allergy season. Solve the same medical reasoning problem with an ATMS. Show how a JTMS could be used to select a TV program to watch. Consider rules such as, If it is 6:00, then watch the news on channel 2 unless there is a football game still going on. TMSs are useful tools in solving constraint satisfaction problems since they fa cilitate the nonmonotonic reasoning that occurs during the search for a complete solution. (a) Show how a JTMS could be used to solve the cryptarithmetic problems of Chapter 2. (b) Show how an ATMS would solve the same problem. We described informally the JTMS labeling process. Write a formal description of that algorithm. Work through the details of the ATMS node labeling process whose results are shown in Fig. 7.14. CHAPTER 8 STATISTICAL REASONING Statistics can be made to prove anything-even the truth. Anonymous So far, we have described several representation techniques that can be used to model belief systems in which, at any given point, a particular fact is believed to be true, believed to be false, or not considered one way or the other. For some kinds of proble