this type of learning when solving problems on an exam where previously learned examples serve as a guide or when we learn to drive a ttuck using our knowledge of car driving. We make frequent use of analogical learning. This form of learning requires still more inferring than either of the previous forms, since difficult transformations must be made between the known and unknown situations. The fourth type of learning is also one that is used frequently by humans. It is a powerful form of learning which, like analogical learning, also requires more inferring than the first two methods. This form of learning requires the use of inductive inference, a form of invalid but useful inference. We use inductive learning when we formulate a general concept after seeing a number of instances or examples of the concept. For example, we learn the concepts of color or sweet taste after experiencing the sensations associated with several examples of colored objects or sweet foods. The ti'ial type of acquisition is deductive learning. It is accomplished through a sequence of deductive inference steps using known facts.. From the known facts. new facts or relationships are logically derived. For example, we could learn deductively that Sue is the cousin of Bill, if we have knowledge of Sue and Bill's parents and rules for the cousin relationship. Deductive learning usually requires more inference than the other methods. The inference method used is, of course, a deductive type, which is a valid form of inference. In addition to the above classification, we will sometimes refer to learning methods as either weak methods or knowledge-rich methods. Weak methods are general purpose methods in which little or no initial knowledge is available. These methods are more mechanical than the classical Al knowledge-rich methods. They often rely on a form of heuristic search in the learning process. Examples of Some weak learning methods are given in the next chapter under the names of Learnin