h! Once upon a time John bear lived in a cave. John knew that John was in his cave. There was a beehive in a maple tree. Tom bee knew that the beehive was in the maple tree. Tom was in his beehive. Tom knew that Tom was in his beehive. There was some honey in Tom s beehive. Tom knew that the honey was in Tom s beehive. Tom had the honey. Tom knew that Tom had the honey. There was a nest in a cherry tree. Arthur bird knew that the nest was in the cherry tree. Arthur bird was in his nest. Arthur knew that Arthur was in his nest. Arthur knew that John was in his cave. John knew that Arthur was in his nest. John knew that Tom was in his beehive. There were some boysenberries near a bush. There was a lily flower in a flowerbed. Arthur knew that the boysenberries were near the bush. John knew that the lily flower was in the flowerbed. One day John was very hungry. John wanted to get some honey. John wanted to find out where there was some honey. John liked Arthur. John wanted Arthur to tell John where there was some honey. John was honest with Arthur. John wasn t competitive with Arthur. John thought that Arthur liked him. John thought that Arthur was honest with him. John wanted to ask Arthur whether Arthur would tell John where there was some honey. John wanted to get near Arthur. John walked from a cave exit....7 14.5.4 BORIS The high point of the work on knowledge structures for natural-language comprehension at Yale was probably the program BORIS written by Michael Dyer (1983), (Lehnert et al, 1983). BORIS incorporated all the structures explored by his predecessors in addition to some designed by Dyer. BORIS had deep knowledge about its somewhat narrow domain of discourse, and that is reflected in the way it answers questions. Another interesting feature of BORIS was that it combined language parsing with memory search. It searched its memory as it read each word, and thus combined a bottom flavour with the top-down memory based one. A big advantage of integrating m