n or the number of penalty signals it generates. This simulates a lifetime for the antibody. More the reward more is its lifetime. Non-selection and penalties will only contribute to a decrease in its lifespan. An equation to effect such decay in concentration is given below: dc; a = k Ac; kye; +(24,7) Here k; is a constant and Ac, is the variation in concentration between the last two iterations. k, can take on any of the values 1, 0 or 1 depending on whether the antibody was rewarded, not selected or penalized. Artificial Immune Systems 493 ererenemnnenrnenmenert tee ee RAREE UAE EAI 24.11 OTHER APPLICATIONS The applications cited above merely give the user an idea as to how the problem can be made suitable for applying the principles of the Artificial Immune System. Researchers have applied this theory to a broad spectrum of areas. These include pattern recognition applications, computer viruses, robot navigation, aircraft fault detection, gene expression processing, circuit design, databases, scheduling and even bio-molecular computing. By the time this book is published many researchers will have added on to this seemingly endless list. There are yet many other domains where the potential of these systems still remain to be tested. Many novel ways of hybridizing ATS principles with other well known learning mechanisms (like the artificial neural networks, genetic algorithms and fuzzy logic) to yield powerful applications capable of autonomously learning a language, embedding defensive behaviours into a set of robots and correlating vision to real actions, are just waiting to be explored! Readers are urged to take a look at the Proceedings of the International Conference on Artificial Immune Systems (ICARIS). 24.12 POINTS TO PONDER Look at the whole world in toto. Look at the defence and assisting mechanisms. Whenever there is a catastrophe, an alarm is sounded and the focus of attention shifts; help is rushed to the point where the disaster occurred. If the pro