d to the development of logical reasoning. De sd some of the basic laws of propositional logic . But it was Boole who clearly stated the principle algebra. As to the lawfulness of this mode of procedure, it may be remarked as a general pr , and not of the peculiar language of Mathematics alone, that we are permitted to employ sy t whatever we choose that they should represent--things, operations, relations, etc., provided 1st ) the signification once fixed, 2nd, that we employ the symbols in subjection to the laws of the things d. (MacHale, 1985). was interested in developing a calculus for reasoning with an orientation of abstract algebra. His we Jern computer scientists call Boolean algebra, which is used for reasoning about logic circuits. Charl 114) showed that all logical formulas could be implemented by a single operator (Peirce arrow: troke: NAND). He also did pioneering work in semiotics, the science of symbols, along with Leibniz F thought focused on laying the logical foundations of different branches of mathematics. These in: Peano (1858-1932: number systems), David Hilbert (1862-1943 : geometry), and Ernst d Zermelo (1871-1953: axiomatization of set theory). In 1920 Hilbert launched an ambitious prograr t's program, the aim of which was to lay a solid logic foundation of all mathematics (see (Detlefser ptember 1930 the mathematician Kurt Gddel (1906-1978) put an end to that dream by proving tha to formalize all mathematics in a consistent manner. G del s Incompleteness Theorem (G del, 1 sting impact on logic and philosophy. It has also been raised when debating the possibility of ce, because the process of implementing anything on the computer is a form of formalization. re however at the moment interested in a different branch of evolution of logic that was concerned of scientific or rational discourse. This branch is characterized by the works of Bertrand Russe idwig Wittgenstein (1889-1951), and Gottlob Frege (1848-1925). Of these Frege is the one cre