whichonecanavoidassessingthepriorprobability
of the evidence (here, P(s)) by instead computing a posterior probability for each value of
Section13.5. Bayes Ruleand Its Use 497
thequeryvariable(here, mand m)andthennormalizingtheresults. Thesameprocesscan
beappliedwhenusing Bayes rule. Wehave
P(M s) (cid:16)P(s m)P(m),P(s m)P( m)(cid:17).
Thus, to use this approach we need to estimate P(s m) instead of P(s). There is no free
lunch sometimesthisiseasier,sometimesitisharder. Thegeneralformof Bayes rulewith
normalization is
P(Y X) P(X Y)P(Y), (13.15)
where isthenormalization constant neededtomaketheentriesin P(Y X)sumto1.
One obvious question to ask about Bayes rule is why one might have available the
conditional probability inonedirection, butnottheother. Inthemeningitis domain, perhaps
thedoctorknowsthatastiffneckimpliesmeningitisin1outof5000cases;thatis,thedoctor
has quantitative information in the diagnostic direction from symptoms to causes. Such a
doctor has no need to use Bayes rule. Unfortunately, diagnostic knowledge is often more
fragilethancausalknowledge. Ifthereisasuddenepidemicofmeningitis, theunconditional
probability of meningitis, P(m), will go up. The doctor who derived the diagnostic proba-
bility P(m s)directly from statistical observation ofpatients before theepidemic willhave
noidea howto update the value, butthe doctorwhocomputes P(m s)from theotherthree
values will see that P(m s) should go up proportionately with P(m). Most important, the
causalinformation P(s m)isunaffected bytheepidemic,becauseitsimplyreflectstheway
meningitis works. The use of this kind of direct causal ormodel-based knowledge provides
thecrucialrobustness neededtomakeprobabilistic systemsfeasibleintherealworld.
13.5.2 Using Bayes rule: Combining evidence
Wehave seen that Bayes rule can be useful for answering probabilistic queries conditioned
on one piece of evidence for example, the stiff neck. In particular, we have argued that
probabilisticinformationisoftenavailableinthef