ow techniques from Information Retrieval. Document Retrieval is probably a more apt term since the output is usually a matching document. In the vector space model, we do assign a value or weight to each word, but that is a statistical property of the word in the context of the document, or even the document collection. We will look at retrieval of text documents in Chapter 16. 15.4 Discussion Case based reasoning arose from the memory organization work being done at Yale University in the seventies and the eighties (Schank and Riesbeck, 1981; Riesbeck and Schank, 1989; Dyer, 1983). The work done by a bunch of research students under Roger Schank was focused on the kind of representations that would lead to understanding natural language stories that required a considerable amount of situational knowledge (see Chapters 13 and 14). The knowledge was hard coded in structures like Scripts, Goals, Plans, MOPs, TOPS, etc. Many of these were episodic in nature, describing typical situations or typical goal-plan-action connections. As more and more of these episodic structures were created, the notion of case based reasoning arose. The earlier work focused on using these structures for understanding. This involved a considerable work on the translation from and into natural language, and matching the conceptual dependency structures. Around the time Hammond wrote his program CHEF that could retrieve and adapt recipes and then store them back, the focus shifted to efficient retrieval from a large number of cases. Partly because conceptual knowledge representation for adaptation is a difficult task and partly because the simpler idea of similarity based retrieval found application into many successful industrial projects, the work in CBR gradually drifted into knowledge management like applications. Current successful applications in CBR employ a uniform case structure along with a similarity measure to determine the best matching cases. Each application stands alone with it