verb groups (say crash landed ) are suggestive of the events. In the fourth step, called the scenario pattern matching, the relations between entities and specific events are mined. This is done by matching the noun phrases and verb groups against a set of recorded patterns. The central problem here is that the same event or relation can be expressed in a variety of ways in English. For example, the pilot made a safe landing and the plane was landed safely by the pilot should lead to the same patterns being triggered. As with capturing patterns using named entity recognition, while one option is to hand code these patterns explicitly, yet another is to make use of statistical techniques. While the steps discussed till now are concerned with sentence level processing, the final two steps involve looking across sentences. Consider the following two sentences: The pilot was experienced in flying under turbulent conditions. He made a safe descent. The he in the second sentence needs to be unified with pilot . This is achieved by coreference analysis which involves anaphora resolution as discussed in Section 16.2.7. The sixth and the final step is inferencing and event merging. Here, we use the information extracted to trigger inferencing, using a set of domain specific rules. An example of such a rule in Prolog syntax is shown below. Failed to reach (X,Y) :-Destination (X,Y), Crashed (X). This can be interpreted as: Flight X failed to reach destination Y, if it was slated for Y but crashed. 16.3.4 Machine Translation Machine Translation (MT) refers to the process of automated translation of text from one language to another. Achieving human level translation quality is a holy grail in NLP, primarily because generating good translations needs a very good understanding of the source document. However, several interesting MT applications have been built and used commercially (Nilsson, 2010); often humans are involved in post-editing the machine generated output to improve 