dle prob-
lems with millions of variables. Beginning in 2002, SAT competitions have been held reg-
ularly; most of the winning entries have either been descendants of CHAFF orhave used the
samegeneral approach. RSAT (Pipatsrisawat and Darwiche, 2007), the2007winner, falls in
thelattercategory. Alsonoteworthyis MINISAT (Eenand So rensson,2003),anopen-source
implementation available at http: minisat.sethat is designed to be easily modified
andimproved. Thecurrentlandscape ofsolversissurveyedby Gomesetal.(2008).
Local search algorithms for satisfiability were tried by various authors throughout the
1980s; all ofthe algorithms werebased onthe idea ofminimizing the number ofunsatisfied
clauses (Hansen and Jaumard, 1990). A particularly effective algorithm was developed by
Gu(1989) and independently by Selman etal. (1992), whocalled it GSAT and showed that
it wascapable of solving a wide range of very hard problems very quickly. The WALKSAT
algorithm described inthechapterisdueto Selman etal.(1996).
The phase transition in satisfiability of random k-SAT problems was first observed
by Simon and Dubois (1989) and has given rise to a great deal of theoretical and empirical
research due, inpart,totheobviousconnection tophasetransitionphenomenainstatistical
physics. Cheeseman etal. (1991) observed phase transitions in several CS Psand conjecture
that all NP-hard problems have a phase transition. Crawford and Auton (1993) located the
3-SAT transition at a clause variable ratio of around 4.26, noting that this coincides with a
278 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
sharppeakintheruntimeoftheir SA Tsolver. Cookand Mitchell(1997)provideanexcellent
summaryoftheearlyliterature ontheproblem.
The current state of theoretical understanding is summarized by Achlioptas (2009).
SATISFIABILITY
The satisfiability threshold conjecture states that, for each k, there is a sharp satisfiability
THRESHOLD
CONJECTURE threshold r ,suchthatasthenumberofvariables n ,instances belowthethreshold are
k
satisfiab