nd learning much easier. For example, the CPCS network (Prad-
han etal., 1994) uses noisy-OR and noisy-MAX distributions tomodel relationships among
diseases and symptoms ininternal medicine. With 448 nodes and 906 links, it requires only
8,254valuesinsteadof133,931,430 foranetworkwithfull CP Ts.
Bayesiannetswithcontinuousvariables
Manyreal-world problems involve continuous quantities, such asheight, mass, temperature,
andmoney;infact,muchofstatisticsdealswithrandomvariableswhosedomainsarecontin-
uous. By definition, continuous variables have an infinite number of possible values, so itis
impossibletospecifyconditional probabilities explicitlyforeachvalue. Onepossiblewayto
handlecontinuousvariablesistoavoidthembyusingdiscretization thatis,dividingupthe
DISCRETIZATION
520 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
Subsidy Harvest
Cost
Buys
Figure14.5 Asimplenetworkwithdiscretevariables(Subsidyand Buys)andcontinuous
variables(Harvest and Cost).
possible values intoafixedsetofintervals. Forexample, temperatures could bedivided into
( 0o C), (0o C 100o C), and ( 100o C). Discretization is sometimes an adequate solution,
but often results in a considerable loss of accuracy and very large CP Ts. The most com-
monsolutionistodefinestandardfamiliesofprobability densityfunctions(see Appendix A)
that are specified by a finite number of parameters. For example, a Gaussian (or normal)
PARAMETER
distribution N( , 2)(x) has the mean and the variance 2 as parameters. Yet another
solution sometimes called a nonparametric representation is to define the conditional
NONPARAMETRIC
distribution implicitly with a collection of instances, each containing specific values of the
parentandchildvariables. Weexplorethisapproach furtherin Chapter18.
A network with both discrete and continuous variables is called a hybrid Bayesian
HYBRIDBAYESIAN network. To specify a hybrid network, we have to specify two new kinds of distributions:
NETWORK
the conditional distribution for a continuous variable given 