ase of multiply connected ones. For details, see Pearl [1988]. Finally, there are stochastic, or randomized algorithms for updating belief networks. One such algorithm (Chavez, 1989] transforms an arbitrary network into a Markov chain. The idea is to shield a given node probabilistically from most of the other nodes in the network: Stochastic algorithms run fast in practice, but may not yield absolutely correct results. 8.4 DEMPSTER-SHAFER THEORY So far, we have described several techniques, all of which consider individual propositions and assign to each of them a point estimate (i.e., a single number) of the degree of belief that is warranted given the evidence. In this section, we consider an alternative technique, called Dempster-Shafer theory [Dempster, 1968; Shafer, 1976]. This new approach considers sets of propositions and assigns to each of them an interval [Belief, Plausibility] in which the degree of belief must lie. Belief (usually denoted Bel) measures the strength of the evidence in favor of a set of propositions. It ranges from 0 (indicating no evidence) to | (denoting cestainty). Plausibility (P/) is denned to be Pi(s) = 1 Bel(>s) It also ranges from 0 to 1 and measures the extent to which evidence in favor of 7s leaves room for belief in s. In particular, if we have certain evidence in favor of ~s, then Bel( s) will be 1 and Pi(s) will be 0. This tells us that the only possible value for Bed(s) is also 0. The belief-plausibility interval we have just defined measures not only our level of belief in some propositions, but also the amount of information we have. Suppose that we are currently considering three competing hypotheses: A, B, and C. If we have no information, we represent that by saying, for each of them, that the true likelihood is in the range [0,1]. As evidence is accumulated, this interval can be expected to shrink, representing increased confidence that we know how likely each hypothesis is. Note that this contrasts with a pure Bayesia