uch too large. This is because the game is played on a 19 x 19 board called goban' , made up of the intersections of nineteen vertical lines with nineteen horizontal ones. The basic move in the game is to place a stone on one of the 381 intersections. The two players are traditionally Black and White, and they place a black stone and a white stone respectively. Black plays first on any one of the 381 intersections, and then White places a stone anywhere else on the board. Thus, we can see that the branching factor in the first thirty moves of the game is going to be higher than 350! The players play in turns, and a player has an option to pass, usually used only in end games. Go has been called a subtle game of territory (lwamoto, 1977), and the objective is to have more stones on the board and surrounding more empty intersections (territory) than the opponent. The Japanese version of the game only counts the empty surrounded territory, while the Chinese version counts both the stones and territory. In addition to staking out territory, players can also capture opponent stones by surrounding them, and that counts as well in the final score. Chess and Go are both board games, but while computer Chess has achieved spectacular success, computer Go is nowhere near any kind of human competence. One reason for this is that the search space is too large. The other is that the nature of evaluation is different. While pieces move around in Chess, they remain fixed on a Go board. Captures are few. Go players go through a process of learning in which they recognize more and more subtle patterns. They hardly employ look-ahead, except when it is a tactical necessity. Abstract knowledge is often expressed in the form of Go proverbs (Kensaku, 1966) and part of the learning process is to recognize when a proverb is applicable. In a comparison (Pinckard, 1992) of the three popular games in the east, Chess, the game of warriors and kings, is described as a game of man vs. man ; the d