cases where patients are not able to associate the faces of one or two known people as their relatives, suggesting that a specific pathway in the network may have been damaged. While it has been demonstrated often that the training of ANNs can be a daunting task demanding huge amount of time and space resources! (see Boxes 4.1 and 4.2, and the section on Emergent systems in Chapter 4), it would probably be a good idea to combine the ideas of symbolic reasoning with the pattern recognition abilities of ANNs to develop hybrid systems. A speech recognition system based on ANNs could be wrapped around a natural language processing system that relies on articulated rules (see Figure 18.32). Hi. How Say Hullo nae Za Aa NLP are you? ; Reasoning Figure18.32 A hybrid system could employ to convert real input patterns to their symbolic representations to be processed by symbolic reasoning and natural language processing (NLP) methods. The process of perception is probably akin to a feedforward system. Incoming information in the form of signals is mapped onto (presumably) symbolic structures. Thus, the perceptive system may be a feedforward system that is guided in some way by feedback from the internal (conceptual) system. There is some evidence that some of the early learning that takes place in the visual cortex of human infants has characteristics of competitive learning. The cognitive apparatus that deals with concepts is more likely to be like the associative memory in Hopfield like networks. One can only hazard a suggestion that in order to build artificial intelligence systems that do not require the kind of learning period that natural ones (humans) do, one may have to find means to build symbolic problem solvers as the kernel, and wrap them with ANNs to enable them to sense a physical world and act in it. 18.9 Discussion The earliest success in Machine Learning arguably was Samuel s Checkers program that improved its game as it played along. It was also one of the e