es. We delve briefly into those issues in Section 15.4. The Interaction between Syntax and Semantics If we take a compositional approach to semantics, then we apply semantic interpretation mules to each syntactic constituent, eventually producing an interpretation for an entire sentence. But making a conimitment about what to do implies no specific commitment about when to do it. To implement a system, however, we musi make some decision on how control will be passed back and forth between the syntactic and the semantic processors. Two extreme positions are: Every time a syntactic constituent is formed, apply semantic iziterpretation to it immediately. Wait until the entire sentence has been parsed, and then interpret the whole thing. There are arguments in favor of each approach. The theme of most of the arguments is search control and the opportunity to prune dead-end paths. Applying semantic processing to each constituent as soon as it is produced allows semantics to rule out right away those constituents that are syntactically valid but that aie no sense. Syntactic processing can then be informed that it should not go any further with those constituents. This approach would pay off, for example, for the sentence, Is the glass jar peanut butter? But this approach can be costly when syntactic processing builds constituents that it will eventually reject as being syntactically unacceptable, regardless of their semantic acceptability. The sentence, The horse raced past the bam felt down, is an example of this. There is no point in doing a semantic analysis of the sentence The horse raced past the barn, since that constituent will not end up being part of any complete syntactic parse. There are also additional arguments for waiting until a complete sentence has been parsed to do at least some parts of semantic interpretation. These arguments involve the need for large constituents to serve as the basis of those semantic actions, such as the ones we discussed in Secti