inatedbyprecision, notrecall justaswithquestionansweringonthe Web(Sec-
tion 22.3.6). Third, the results can be statistical aggregates gathered from multiple sources,
ratherthanbeingextractedfromonespecifictext.
For example, Hearst (1992) looked at the problem of learning an ontology of concept
categories and subcategories from a large corpus. (In 1992, a large corpus was a 1000-page
encyclopedia; todayitwouldbea100-million-page Webcorpus.) Theworkconcentrated on
templates that are very general (not tied to a specific domain) and have high precision (are
880 Chapter 22. Natural Language Processing
almostalwayscorrectwhentheymatch)butlowrecall(donot alwaysmatch). Hereisoneof
themostproductive templates:
NP suchas NP (,NP) (,)? ((and or)NP)? .
Here the bold words and commas must appear literally in the text, but the parentheses are
for grouping, the asterisk means repetition of zero or more, and the question mark means
optional. NP is avariable standing fora noun phrase; Chapter 23 describes how to identify
nounphrases;fornowjustassumethatweknowsomewordsarenounsandotherwords(such
as verbs) that we can reliably assume are not part of a simple noun phrase. This template
matches the texts diseases such asrabies affect your dog and supports network protocols
such as DNS, concluding that rabies is a disease and DNS is a network protocol. Similar
templatescanbeconstructed withthekeywords including, especially, and orother. Of
course these templates will fail to match many relevant passages, like Rabies is a disease. Thatisintentional. The NP isa NP templatedoesindeedsometimesdenoteasubcategory
relation, but it often means something else, as in There is a God or She is a little tired. Withalargecorpuswecanaffordtobepicky;touseonlythehigh-precision templates. We ll
miss many statements of a subcategory relationship, but most likely we ll find a paraphrase
ofthestatementsomewhereelseinthecorpusinaformwecanuse.
22.4.5 Automated templateconstruction
Thesubcategory relationissofun