tion, because the advantaged com-
pany can always bid higher. Thus, the competitors may not enter at all, and the advantaged
companyendsupwinningatthereserveprice.
Anothernegativepropertyofthe Englishauctionisitshighcommunicationcosts. Either
theauction takesplaceinoneroomorallbiddershavetohave high-speed, securecommuni-
cationlines;ineithercasetheyhavetohavethetimeavailabletogothroughseveralroundsof
bidding. Analternative mechanism,whichrequires muchlesscommunication, isthesealed-
SEALED-BID bidauction. Eachbiddermakes asingle bidandcommunicates ittotheauctioneer, without
AUCTION
theotherbidders seeing it. Withthismechanism, thereisno longer asimple dominant strat-
egy. If your value is v and you believe that the maximum of all the other agents bids will
i
be b , then you should bid b (cid:2), for some small (cid:2), if that is less than v . Thus, your bid
o o i
depends on your estimation of the other agents bids, requiring you to do more work. Also,
note that the agent with the highest v might not win the auction. This is offset by the fact
i
thattheauctionismorecompetitive, reducing thebiastowardanadvantaged bidder.
A small change in the mechanism for sealed-bid auctions produces the sealed-bid
SEALED-BID second-priceauction,alsoknownasa Vickreyauction.10 Insuchauctions,thewinnerpays
SECOND-PRICE
AUCTION
the price of the second-highest bid, b , rather than paying his own bid. This simple modifi-
VICKREYAUCTION o
cation completely eliminates thecomplexdeliberations required forstandard (or first-price)
sealed-bidauctions, becausethedominantstrategyisnowsimplytobidv ;themechanismis
i
truth-revealing. Notethattheutilityofagentiintermsofhisbidb ,hisvaluev ,andthebest
i i
bidamongtheotheragents, b ,is
o
(cid:24)
(v b ) ifb b
u i o i o
i 0 otherwise.
To see that b v is a dominant strategy, note that when (v b ) is positive, any bid
i i i o
that wins the auction is optimal, and bidding v in particular wins the auction. On the other
i
hand, when (v b )isnegative, anybid 