ouldneedcopiesofeachsentence foreachtimestep.
Simple reflex behaviorcanalsobeimplemented byquantifiedimplication sentences.
Forexample,wehave t Glitter(t) Best Action(Grab,t).
306 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
Giventheperceptandrulesfromthepreceding paragraphs, thiswouldyieldthedesiredcon-
clusion Best Action(Grab,5) that is,Grab istherightthingtodo.
We have represented the agent s inputs and outputs; now it is time to represent the
environment itself. Let us begin with objects. Obvious candidates are squares, pits, and the
wumpus. Wecouldnameeachsquare Square andsoon butthenthefactthat Square
1,2 1,2
and Square are adjacent would have to be an extra fact, and we would need one such
1,3
factforeach pairofsquares. Itisbettertouseacomplex term inwhich therowandcolumn
appearasintegers; forexample,wecansimplyusethelistterm 1,2 . Adjacencyofanytwo
squarescanbedefinedas x,y,a,b Adjacent( x,y , a,b ) (x a (y b 1 y b 1)) (y b (x a 1 x a 1)).
We could name each pit, but this would be inappropriate for a different reason: there is no
reason to distinguish among pits.10 It is simpler to use a unary predicate Pit that is true of
squares containing pits. Finally, since there is exactly one wumpus, a constant Wumpus is
justasgoodasaunarypredicate(andperhapsmoredignifiedfromthewumpus sviewpoint).
The agent s location changes over time, so we write At(Agent,s,t) to mean that the
agentisatsquaresattimet. Wecanfixthewumpus slocationwith t At(Wumpus, 2,2 ,t).
Wecanthensaythatobjectscanonlybeatonelocation atatime: x,s ,s ,t At(x,s ,t) At(x,s ,t) s s .
1 2 1 2 1 2
Given its current location, the agent can infer properties of the square from properties of its
current percept. For example, if the agent is at a square and perceives a breeze, then that
squareisbreezy: s,t At(Agent,s,t) Breeze(t) Breezy(s).
Itisusefultoknowthatasquareisbreezybecauseweknowthatthepitscannotmoveabout.
Noticethat Breezy hasnotimeargument.
Havingdiscovered whichplacesarebreezy(orsmelly)and,veryimportant, notbreezy