 5 airports. Now there are only 510 55 10 1017 states. A solution in this
abstract state space will be shorter than a solution in the original space (and thus will be an
admissible heuristic), and the abstract solution is easy to extend to a solution to the original
problem (byaddingadditional Load and Unload actions).
3 Manyproblemsarewrittenwiththisconvention. Forproblemsthataren t,replaceeverynegativeliteral P
inagoalorpreconditionwithanewpositiveliteral,P(cid:3).
378 Chapter 10. Classical Planning
Figure10.6 Twostatespacesfromplanningproblemswiththeignore-delete-listsheuris-
tic. Theheightabovethebottomplaneistheheuristicscoreofastate;statesonthebottom
planearegoals. Therearenolocalminima,sosearchforthegoalisstraightforward. From
Hoffmann(2005).
Akeyideaindefiningheuristicsisdecomposition: dividingaproblemintoparts,solv-
DECOMPOSITION
SUBGOAL ing each part independently, and then combining the parts. The subgoal independence as-
INDEPENDENCE
sumption is that the cost of solving a conjunction of subgoals is approximated by the sum
of the costs of solving each subgoal independently. The subgoal independence assumption
canbeoptimisticorpessimistic. Itisoptimisticwhentherearenegativeinteractions between
the subplans for each subgoal for example, when an action in one subplan deletes a goal
achieved by another subplan. It is pessimistic, and therefore inadmissible, when subplans
containredundantactions forinstance,twoactionsthatcouldbereplacedbyasingleaction
inthemergedplan.
Supposethegoalisasetoffluents G,whichwedivideintodisjointsubsets G ,...,G .
1 n
Wethen findplans P ,...,P that solve therespective subgoals. Whatisanestimate ofthe
1 n
costoftheplanforachievingallof G? Wecanthinkofeach Cost(P )asaheuristicestimate,
i
andweknowthatifwecombineestimatesbytakingtheirmaximumvalue,wealwaysgetan
admissible heuristic. So max
i
COST(P
i
) is admissible, and sometimes it is exactly correct:
it could be that P serendipitously achieves all the G . But in most cases, in pract