ernational Conference on Principles and Practice of
Constraint Programming,oftencalled CP.
EXERCISES
6.1 Howmanysolutions arethere forthemap-coloring problem in Figure6.1? Howmany
solutions iffourcolorsareallowed? Twocolors?
6.2 Consider the problem of placing k knights on an n n chessboard such that no two
knightsareattacking eachother, where k isgivenandk n2.
Exercises 231
a. Choosea CS Pformulation. Inyourformulation, whatarethe variables?
b. Whatarethepossiblevaluesofeachvariable?
c. Whatsetsofvariablesareconstrained, andhow?
d. Now consider the problem of putting as many knights as possible on the board with-
out any attacks. Explain how to solve this with local search by defining appropriate
ACTIONS and RESULT functions andasensibleobjective function.
6.3 Consider the problem of constructing (not solving) crossword puzzles:5 fitting words
into a rectangular grid. The grid, which is given as part of the problem, specifies which
squares are blank and which are shaded. Assume that a list of words (i.e., a dictionary)
is provided and that the task is to fill in the blank squares by using any subset of the list.
Formulatethisproblem precisely intwoways:
a. As a general search problem. Choose an appropriate search algorithm and specify a
heuristicfunction. Isitbettertofillinblanksoneletteratatimeoronewordatatime?
b. Asaconstraint satisfaction problem. Shouldthevariablesbewordsorletters?
Whichformulation doyouthinkwillbebetter? Why?
6.4 Givepreciseformulationsforeachofthefollowingasconstraint satisfaction problems:
a. Rectilinearfloor-planning: findnon-overlappingplacesinalargerectangleforanumber
ofsmallerrectangles.
b. Classscheduling: Thereisafixednumberofprofessorsandclassrooms,alistofclasses
to be offered, and a list of possible time slots for classes. Each professor has a set of
classesthatheorshecanteach.
c. Hamiltoniantour: givenanetworkofcitiesconnectedbyroads,chooseanordertovisit
allcitiesinacountry withoutrepeating any.
6.5 Solve the cryptarithmetic problem