ckwise succession. They are required to follow suit or play a card in the suit led by the first player, unless they do not have one, in which case they can play any card. The highest card of the led suit played in that trick wins the trick, unless someone has played a trump card, in which case the highest trump card wins the trick. The corresponding player has to lead the card for the next trick. The game is played in two stages. The first stage is an auction in which the players bid to make a certain number of tricks. A bid includes the number of tricks the side is bidding for as well as a suit to be the trump suit. If the final contract has a trump suit then all the cards of that suit are deemed to be higher than all other cards. Then if a player does not have cards in a led suit, she can ruff and win the trick with a trump card. A contract may also be bid without naming trumps, and is known as a no trumps contract. The bids that a player can make are from an ordered list BIDS as follows: BIDS 1C, 1D, 1H, 1S, 1N, 2C, 2D, ...., 7H, 7S, 7N where C stands for clubs, D for diamonds, H for hearts, S for spades, and N for no trumps. A player can only choose a higher bid than the previous one. A player may also choose to PASS anytime. In addition, the following bids may be used conditionally. If the previous nonPASS bid is by an opponent and from the set BIDS then a player may use a bid called DOUBLE. Finally, if the previous nonPASS bid is a DOUBLE by an opponent then a player may bid REDOUBLE. The side that bids the highest gets the contract, after which one designated opponent has to start play by leading a card. The next player puts down her cards face up and is known as dummy. She does not play any more role in the proceedings and her partner, known as declarer, decides what cards the dummy will play. Thirteen tricks are played out after that, the winner of each trick starting the next trick. The objective of the declarer is to fulfil the contract and perhaps win mo