6 Sec. 7.2 Associative Networks 127 PROFESSION(bob,protessor) FACULTY(bob,engioearing) MARRIED(bob,sandy) FATHER-OF4bob,sue.joe) DRIVES(bob.buick) OWNS(bob.house) - MARRIED(x.y) V MARRIED(y,x) Figure 7.1 Fads In a KB iiven in clau,,at form. or resolution. For example, facts about Bob, a university professor, might be entered as clauses in a KB as depicted in Figure 7.1 The entries in the KB of Figure 7.1 have no particular order or grouping associated with them. Furthermore, in representing various facts about Bob, it was necessary to repeat Bob's name for each association given. All facts appear independently, without any linkage to other facts, even though they may be closely related conceptually (Bob is married, owns a house, has children, drives a Buick. and so forth). For small KB5, the representation used in Figure 7.1 presents no problem. Adding, or otherwise changing facts in the KB is easy enough, and a search of all clauses in the KB can be made if necessary when performing inferences. When the quantity of information becomes large and more complex, however, the acquisition, comprehension, use, and maintenance of the knowledge can become difficult or even intractible. In such cases, sonic form of knowledge structuring and organization becomes a necessity. Real-world problem domains typically involve a number and variety of different objects interacting with each other in different ways. The objects themselves may require extensive characterizations. and their interaction relationships with other objects may be very complex. 7.2 ASSOCIATIVE NETWORKS Network representations provide a means of structuring and exhibiting the structure in knowledge. In a network, pieces of knowledge are clustered together into coherent semantic groups. Networks also provide a more natural way to map to and from natural language than do other representation schemes. Network representations give a pictorial presentation of objects, their attributes and the relationships that exis