e other cannot reason by cases. nciple of course one can add more rules on the lines of the constructive dilemma rule, but that ome, and too specific. For example, one could add the following rule to solve the first problem. From: B and: 6 and: avy infer (BAQV(OA y at would be a specific rule for that particular inference. Observe that both the problems can easily t ng proof by contradiction. Assume the negation of the goal, and show that it leads to a contradictio what Robinson s resolution method does. Further the resolution method uses only one rule of infer nplete. ply the resolution method we first need to convert the first order sentences into the clause form, wh of the CNF in FOL. Clause Form Jer formula is in clause form if it is of the following form, WX1 WX2 WXy (Cy A Co we AN Cy) ich C; is a clause made of disjunction of literals, and each literal is an atomic formula or its negation lause form contains only universal quantifiers. The consequence of having only universal quantifier bunched up in the left is that one can in fact ignore the quantifiers during processing. That make 5 a little bit simpler. s shown by Thoralf Skolem that every formula can be converted into the clause form. The proce g a first order formula into the clause form is as follows (see also (Manna, 1974), (Brachman and L: siven a FOL formula a, ake the existential closure of a. This ensures that there are no free variables in the formula. tandardize variables apart across quantifiers. Rename variables so that the same symbol does not erent quantifiers. iminate all occurrences of operators other than A, V, and 7. ove all the way in. ish the quantifiers to the right. This ensures that their scope is as tight a possible. iminate 3. ove all V to the left. They can be ignored henceforth. stribute A over V. moplify ename variables in each clause (disjunction). 2 end of this procedure the given first order formula is converted into an equivalent clause fo will need only a few of the above s