 known as Qualitative Physics or Naive Physics because it has often been used to model physical systems. This is an attempt to replicate the way people model the everyday world and reason about it very successfully and efficiently. We illustrate the idea of qualitative reasoning with the following scenario. A young girl is playing with a ball in a room. She releases the ball from a certain location with a certain velocity as shown in Figure 17.2. The task is to predict what will happen next. If we have the numerical data about initial location and velocity, one could apply the Newtonian equations as shown in the figure. Newtonian mechanics x, Xq Vol Figure 17.2 Given that a ball is thrown at the location (xo, Yo) with a velocity (Vxo, Vy), predict the future trajectory of the ball. Even when we know the initial conditions, there are limitations to using these equations. For one, they are themselves an abstraction of the real world. In particular, they ignore air resistance which has a decelerating effect on velocity. They also ignore the fact that the earth is round, given that the size of the room is miniscule compared to the radius of the earth. More importantly, however, these equations are relations between the different quantities, and are not concerned about the state in which they are applied. One cannot say when they cease to be applicable. That happens in the mind of the reasoner. Such reasoning that factors in extraneous data often happens during the conceptual stage in a design process, before the quantitative analysis kicks in. Qualitative reasoning treats the moving ball as a being in a qualitative state. The state is described as follows. The ball is moving up and to the right, and its vertical speed is decreasing (due to gravity). There are three different ways this state can end, leading to a new state as shown in Figure 17.3. This could happen when the ball hits the ceiling resulting in state 1, or its vertical velocity becomes zero resulting in sta