t applications such as integrated-circuit de-
sign,factory-floorlayout,job-shopscheduling,automaticprogramming,telecommunications
networkoptimization, vehiclerouting, andportfolio management.
120
Section4.1. Local Search Algorithmsand Optimization Problems 121
If the path to the goal does not matter, we might consider a different class of algo-
rithms, ones that do not worry about paths at all. Local search algorithms operate using
LOCALSEARCH
a single current node (rather than multiple paths) and generally move only to neighbors
CURRENTNODE
of that node. Typically, the paths followed by the search are not retained. Although local
search algorithms are not systematic, they have two key advantages: (1) they use very little
memory usuallyaconstantamount;and(2)theycanoftenfindreasonablesolutionsinlarge
orinfinite(continuous) statespacesforwhichsystematic algorithmsareunsuitable.
In addition to finding goals, local search algorithms are useful for solving pure op-
OPTIMIZATION timization problems, in which the aim is to find the best state according to an objective
PROBLEM
OBJECTIVE function. Many optimization problems do not fitthe standard search model introduced in
FUNCTION
Chapter 3. For example, nature provides an objective function reproductive fitness that
Darwinian evolution could be seen as attempting tooptimize, but there isno goal test and
no pathcost forthisproblem.
STATE-SPACE Tounderstand localsearch, wefindituseful toconsiderthe state-space landscape(as
LANDSCAPE
in Figure4.1). Alandscapehasboth location (definedbythestate)and elevation (defined
by the value ofthe heuristic cost function orobjective function). Ifelevation corresponds to
cost, then the aim is to find the lowest valley a global minimum; if elevation corresponds
GLOBALMINIMUM
toanobjective function, thentheaim istofindthehighest peak a globalmaximum. (You
GLOBALMAXIMUM
can convert from one to the other just by inserting a minus sign.) Local search algorithms
explore this landscape. A complet