bjects. A
typical task is to extract instances of addresses from Web pages, with database fields for
street, city, state, and zip code; or instances of storms from weather reports, with fields for
temperature, wind speed, and precipitation. In a limited domain, this can be done with high
accuracy. Asthedomaingetsmoregeneral, morecomplexlinguistic modelsandmorecom-
plex learning techniques are necessary. We will see in Chapter 23 how to define complex
language models of the phrase structure (noun phrases and verb phrases) of English. But so
far there are no complete models of this kind, so for the limited needs of information ex-
traction, we define limited models that approximate the full English model, and concentrate
on just the parts that are needed for the task at hand. The models we describe in this sec-
874 Chapter 22. Natural Language Processing
tionareapproximations inthesamewaythatthesimple1-CN Flogical modelin Figure7.21
(page271)isanapproximations ofthefull,wiggly,logical model.
In this section we describe six different approaches to information extraction, in order
ofincreasing complexity onseveraldimensions: deterministic tostochastic, domain-specific
togeneral, hand-crafted tolearned, andsmall-scale tolarge-scale.
22.4.1 Finite-stateautomata forinformationextraction
ATTRIBUTE-BASED Thesimplesttypeofinformation extraction system isan attribute-based extraction system
EXTRACTION
thatassumesthattheentiretextreferstoasingleobjectandthetaskistoextractattributes of
that object. For example, we mentioned in Section 12.7 the problem of extracting from the
text IBM Think Book 970. Our price: 399.00 the set of attributes Manufacturer IBM,
Model Think Book970, Price 399.00 . We can address this problem by defining a tem-
plate (also known as a pattern) for each attribute we would like to extract. The template is
TEMPLATE
REGULAR definedbyafinitestateautomaton,thesimplestexampleofwhichistheregularexpression,
EXPRESSION
or regex. Regular expressions are used in Uni