, aarti , Escience avinash, arnav, aarti, amrita, ashwani , Egames aarti, amrita , and Emysic aarti . The corresponding (closed) property sets are, att(Enan) (math, english, science, games, music att(E engiisn) (english, science Aatt(E science) science att(E games) science, games att(Ewnsic) math, english, science, games, music For a closed set of properties (X att(C)) C M, the set of remaining attributes res(X) that can be added to create a new concept is defined as, res(X) meM X (obj(X) N nbr(m)) 3 It is possible that for two distinct properties n, m res(X) the corresponding objects set is identical. Having identical object sets induces an equivalence relation that partitions res(X). res(X) S U Sp U... US Each such partition will correspond to a formal concept and a possible child of the concept C. Let the set of equivalence classes be called the AttrChild(X) S1, So, ..., Sj . We assume that the subscript of S is mapped to the attributes that are in that partition. For the above example AttrChild( ) Spatmmsic math, english, science, games, history . Sengiisn english. science . Sscience science . Sgames science. games For each S; AttrChild(X), the pair (obj (S; U X), (S; U X)) is a formal concept. In the above example, X and the corresponding child concepts of T are, Crath music aarti . math, english, science, games, history ) Cengtish ( amay, aarti , english, science ) Ceames ( aarti, amrita . science, games ) Cycience ( avinash, arnav, aarti, amrita, ashwani , science ) Let Succ(X) be a set of attribute sets that correspond to the set of successors of concept C in the concept lattice. Given that by definition there cannot be two successors C, and C; such that Cy Cj, some of the elements in AttrChild(X) may not correspond to the successors of C. They will move further down in the lattice. As defined above, C, Ges CS,. Since in the above example, Sscience c Smath,music and Sscience c Senglish c Smath,music and Sscience c Senglish c Simath,music only Cycience Qualit