 and Q codesignate. Roughly, this means that P has to be asserted in the initial state or by some previous step and that there can be no clobbering steps without corresponding declobbering steps to save the day. The relationship between the modal truth criterion and the five plan modification operations is shown in Fig. 13.9. The figure is simply a logical parse tree of the criterion, from which we can see how the plan modification operations are used to enforce the truth of various parts of the criterion. In the figure, the expression C, ~ C, means step (or state) C, necessarily precedes step (or state) C,: The expression P = Q means P and Q codesignate. Simple establishment Jold T T<S OR t J new T SAND 3 UP=U step addition AND declobbering. Cx<W VQ-OR+*-OR Jold W ANDC W<S vo - ORS fo New W a RP=Q>P=R promotion P#Q separation Fig. 13.9 The Modal Truth Criterion for Telling whether Proposition P Necessarily Holds in State S The development of a provably correct planner was a noteworthy achievement in the formal (or neat ) style of AI. It cleaned up the complicated, ill-defined planning notions that preceded it and made available a reliable (if not efficient) planner. Now, however, a new round of more informal (or scruffy ) research must follow, concentrating on the weaknesses of such planners. Efficiency is of critical concern in large systems assured correctness is nice, but a slow planner can be less useful than an incorrect one. Typically, searchbased programs can be made faster through the use of heuristic knowledge. Another efficiency issue has to do with the /ength of the plans produced by a planner. Current planners can, unfortunately, generate highly inefficient plans. Representational issues are just as important as efficiency issues, and the two are closely intertwined. The representation of operators and plans used by TWEAK is at the same time too powerful and too weak. Chapman [1987] proved that even with simple STRIPS-style operators, planning in genera