nyoftherulesofthewumpusworld
are best written using . Forexample, a square is breezy if a neighboring square has a pit,
andasquareisbreezy onlyifaneighboring squarehasapit. Soweneedabiconditional,
B (P P ),
1,1 1,2 2,1
where B meansthatthereisabreezein 1,1 .
1,1
7.4.3 A simpleknowledge base
Nowthatwehavedefinedthesemanticsforpropositionallogic,wecanconstructaknowledge
base for the wumpus world. We focus first on the immutable aspects of the wumpus world,
leaving the mutable aspects for a later section. Fornow, weneed the following symbols for
each x,y location:
7 Latinhasaseparateword,aut,forexclusiveor.
Section7.4. Propositional Logic: AVery Simple Logic 247
P istrueifthereisapitin x,y .
x,y
W istrueifthereisawumpusin x,y ,deadoralive.
x,y
B istrueiftheagentperceives abreezein x,y .
x,y
S istrueiftheagentperceivesastenchin x,y .
x,y
The sentences we write will suffice to derive P (there is no pit in 1,2 ), as was done
1,2
informally in Section7.3. Welabeleachsentence R sothatwecanrefertothem:
i Thereisnopitin 1,1 :
R : P .
1 1,1 A square is breezy if and only if there is a pit in a neighboring square. This has to be
statedforeachsquare; fornow,weincludejusttherelevant squares:
R : B (P P ).
2 1,1 1,2 2,1
R : B (P P P ).
3 2,1 1,1 2,2 3,1 The preceding sentences are true in all wumpus worlds. Now we include the breeze
perceptsforthefirsttwosquaresvisitedinthespecificworldtheagentisin,leadingup
tothesituation in Figure7.3(b).
R : B .
4 1,1
R : B .
5 2,1
7.4.4 A simpleinference procedure
Our goal now is to decide whether KB for some sentence . For example, is P
1,2
entailedbyour KB? Ourfirstalgorithm forinference isamodel-checking approachthatisa
direct implementation of the definition of entailment: enumerate the models, and check that is true in every model in which KB is true. Models are assignments of true or false to
every proposition symbol. Returning to our wumpus-world example, the relevant proposi-
tion symbols are B , B , P , P , P , P , and P . With seven s