nce C ,C ,C ,C ,C ,C ,C . Alsogiveitsprobability.
1 2 3 4 4 6 7
23.19 We forgot to mention that the text in Exercise 23.1 is entitled Washing Clothes. Reread the text and answer the questions in Exercise 23.14. Did you do better this time?
Bransfordand Johnson(1973)usedthistextinacontrolledexperimentandfoundthatthetitle
helpedsignificantly. Whatdoesthistellyouabouthowlanguage andmemoryworks?
24
PERCEPTION
Inwhichweconnect thecomputertotheraw,unwashedworld.
Perceptionprovidesagentswithinformationabouttheworldtheyinhabitbyinterpreting the
PERCEPTION
response of sensors. A sensor measures some aspect of the environment in a form that can
SENSOR
beusedasinputbyanagentprogram. Thesensorcouldbeassimpleasaswitch,whichgives
onebittellingwhetheritisonoroff,orascomplexastheeye. Avarietyofsensorymodalities
are available to artificial agents. Those they share with humans include vision, hearing, and
touch. Modalities that are not available to the unaided human include radio, infrared, GPS,
andwirelesssignals. Somerobotsdoactivesensing,meaningtheysendoutasignal,suchas
radarorultrasound, andsensethereflectionofthissignaloffoftheenvironment. Ratherthan
tryingtocoverallofthese, thischapterwillcoveronemodalityindepth: vision.
We saw in our description of POMD Ps (Section 17.4, page 658) that a model-based
decision-theoretic agent in a partially observable environment has a sensor model a prob-
ability distribution P(E S) over the evidence that its sensors provide, given a state of the
world. Bayes rulecanthenbeusedtoupdatetheestimationofthestate.
For vision, the sensor model can be broken into two components: An object model
OBJECTMODEL
describes the objects that inhabit the visual world people, buildings, trees, cars, etc. The
objectmodelcouldincludeaprecise3Dgeometricmodeltakenfromacomputer-aideddesign
(CAD)system,oritcouldbevagueconstraints,suchasthefactthathumaneyesareusually5
to7cmapart. Arenderingmodeldescribesthephysical,geometric,andstatisticalprocesses
RENDERINGMODEL
that p