ystem. As we examine each of the theories below, we need to evaluate how well they perform each of these tasks. For a more detailed discussion of these theories and some comparisons among them, see Reiter [1987a], Etherington [1988], and Genesereth and Nilsson[1987]. Before we go into specific theories in detail, let s consider Fig. 7.1, which shows one way of visualizing how nonmonotonic reasoning works in all of them. The box labeled A corresponds to an original set of wff s. The large circle contains all the L models of A. When we add some nonmonotonic reasoning capabilities to A, we get a new set of wff s, which we ve labeled B.? B (usually) contains more information ' than A does. As a result, fewer models satisfy 5 than A. The set of models UB corresponding to B is shown at the lower right of the large circle. Now suppose we add some new wff s (representing new information) to A. We represent A with Fig. 7.1 Models, Wff's, these additions as the box C. A difficulty may arise, however, if the set of models and Noncorresponding to C is as shown in the smaller, interior circle, since it is disjoint with Ronen the models for B. In order to find a new set of models that satisfy C, we need to easoning accept models that had previously been rejected. To do that, we need to eliminate the wff s that were responsible for those models being thrown away. This is the essence of nonmonotonic reasoning. 7.2.1 Default Reasoning We want to use nonmonotonic reasoning to perform what is commonly called default reasoning. We want to draw conclusions based on what is most likely to be true. In this section, we discuss two approaches to doing this. Nonmonotonic Logic? Default Logic We then describe two common kinds of nonmonotonic reasoning that can be defined in those logics: Abduction e Inheritance Nonmonotonic Logic One system that provides a basis for default reasoning is Nonmonotonic Logic (NML) [Mc Dermott and Doyle, 1980], in which the language of first-order predicate logic