g. Given a formula a in first order logic, the phrase Ba represents belief in a. Thus, Ba stands for the fact that the agent believes a; Ba stands for the fact that the agent does not believe a; B-a stands for the sentence that the agent believes a; and -B-a stands for the sentence that the agent does not believe 7a. Alternatively, if one is reasoning about the beliefs of an agent, one could treat the formula a to stand for the fact that the agent believes a. In that case, Ba stands for the fact that the agent believes that it (or she) believes a. Since these sentences are about the agent s own beliefs, hence the name autoepistemic logic. For the purpose of reasoning, we treat B as a unary operator. The formulas that are true have no logical basis, except that they have to consistent with what is in the knowledge base. This consistency is enforced by the following set of properties that must be satisfied by the set of beliefs or expansion x (see (Brachman and Levesque, 2004)), 1. The set is closed under entailment. Ife athenacx 2. The set respects positive introspection. Ifae x thenBacxk 3. The set respects negative introspection. Ifa ex then "Bac When an expansion satisfies these properties, we say that it is stable. The normal default rule that birds fly is expressed in Autoepistemic Logic as, Vx ((Bird(x) -B-Flies(x)) Flies(x)) Now let us say that we have a simple knowledge base consisting of the single sentence Bird(tweety). The task is to determine the expansions of this knowledge base and check whether Flies(tweety) is present in it. There are two possible expansions of this knowledge base, one in which the statement B-Flies(tweety) is true, and the other in which it is false. The question is whether any of these is stable. Now if B-Flies(tweety) is true then 7Flies(tweety) should be present in the expansion, for the second stability criterion to apply. But there is no rule which will add -Flies(tweety) to the database. Hence, this is not a stable expansion. I