ision intodistinctobjects. Wegivethisportionthegenericname
INDIVIDUATION
stuff. For example, suppose I have some butter and an aardvark in front of me. I can say
STUFF
thereisoneaardvark, butthereisnoobviousnumberof butter-objects, becauseanypartof
abutter-object isalso abutter-object, atleast until wegettovery smallparts indeed. Thisis
the major distinction between stuff and things. If we cut an aardvark in half, we do not get
twoaardvarks (unfortunately).
The English language distinguishes clearly between stuff andthings. Wesay anaard-
vark, but, except in pretentious California restaurants, one cannot say a butter. Linguists
distinguish between countnouns,such asaardvarks, holes, and theorems, and mass nouns,
COUNTNOUNS
such as butter, water, and energy. Several competing ontologies claim tohandle this distinc-
MASSNOUN
tion. Herewedescribe justone;theothersarecoveredinthe historical notessection.
To represent stuff properly, we begin with the obvious. We need to have as objects in
our ontology at least the gross lumps of stuff we interact with. For example, we might
recognize a lump of butter as the one left on the table the night before; wemight pick it up,
weigh it, sell it, or whatever. In these senses, it is an object just like the aardvark. Let us
callit Butter . Wealsodefinethecategory Butter. Informally,itselementswillbeallthose
3
thingsofwhichonemightsay It sbutter, including Butter . Withsomecaveatsaboutvery
3
smallpartsthatwewomitfornow,anypartofabutter-object isalsoabutter-object:
b Butter Part Of(p,b) p Butter .
Wecannowsaythatbuttermeltsataround30degreescentigrade:
b Butter Melting Point(b,Centigrade(30)).
Wecould goontosaythatbutterisyellow,islessdensethanwater, issoftatroomtempera-
ture,hasahighfatcontent,andsoon. Ontheotherhand,butterhasnoparticularsize,shape,
or weight. We can define more specialized categories of butter such as Unsalted Butter,
which is also a kind of stuff. Note that the category Pound Of Butter, which includes as
members all 