 different sizes. For each problem, generate different, random candidate solutions and apply Hill Climbing to each candidate before adding it to the population. Does the performance improve? In Section 4.4.3, we have observed that not every permutation of numbers representing cities in the adjacency representation is a valid tour. Since every permutation in the path representation is a valid tour, does it mean that there are some tours that are not represented in the adjacency representation? Given the TSP candidate solution (DHGBFCAE) in path representation, remove three edges and show the neighbours generated by a 3-edge exchange operator. How many neighbours in all does this operator generate for this candidate? Given the two tours in the TSP problem, (FICDEBAHG) and (EAGIDBHFC), illustrate, (a) The order crossover (b) The partially mapped crossover (c) The cycle crossover 10. Create Ordinal Representations for the two candidates in the previous question. . Given the cost matrix in the accompanying table, determine the estimated cost of a TSP tour that contains the segment DE, but excludes the segment AC. Describe your estimating function. What properties should the estimating function have to devise a good TSP solver? 4 B CC OD E 4. 0 7 2 5 60 Bm oO 40 10 30 0 0 3 40 D 530 0 30 0 7 EE 0 3 4 7 oO 12. A TSP problem with N cities is being solved by the ant colony optimization problem using M ants. An edge Ey has o(t) amount of pheromone at time t. When will the amount of pheromone on this edge change and by what amount? Be precise. 13. Explore the World Wide Web to get some facts about the human brain. How many neurons do we have? What is the size of the soma? How long can the axon be? How many neurons is a given neuron connected to? Does the number of connections increase or decrease with age? 14. Explore the books Godel Escher Bach (Hofstadter, 1979) and The Mind s (Hofstadter and Dennett, 1981). Read the chapter on Ant Fugue , and study how a colony of ants can 