is the unfamiliar place, we should plan our route by reasoning backward from the unfamiliar place. On the other hand, consider the problem of symbolic integration. The problem space is the set of formulas, some of which contain integral expressions. The start state is a particular formula containing some integral expression. The desired goal state is a formula that is equivalent to the initial one and that does not contain any integral expressions. So we begin with a single easily identified start state and a huge number of possible goal states. Thus to solve this problem, it is better to reason forward using the rules for integration to try to generate an integral-free expression than to start with arbitrary integral-free expressions, use the rules for differentiation, and try to generate the particular integral we are trying to solve. Again we want to head toward the largest target; this time that means chaining forward. 136 Artificial Intelligence NN RN These two examples have illustrated the importance of the relative number of start states to goal states in deterinining the optimal direction in which to search when the branching factor is approximately the same in both directions. When the branching factor is not the same, however, it must also be taken into account. Consider again the problem of proving theorems in some particular domain of mathematics. Our goal state is the particular theorem to be proved. Our initial states are normally a small set of axioms. Neither of these sets is significantly bigger than the other. But consider the branching factor in each of the two directions. From a small set of axioms we can derive a very large number of theorems. On the other hand, this large number of theorems must go back to the small set of axioms. So the branching factor is significantly greater going forward from the axioms to the theorems than it is going backward from theorems to axioms. This suggests that it would be much better to reason backward when tryi