n artificial one, such as a mechanical device, envisionments can be used to diagnose problems that occur when components fail to behave correctly. Envisionments can also be used to represent and/or repair inaccurate mental models that people may have. For more information about envisionments and qualitative simulation, see Weld and de Kleer [1988]. In order to write programs that automatically construct envisionments, we must represent qualitative knowledge about the behavior of particular kinds of processes, substances, spaces, devices, and so on. In the next section, we look at how to codify some of this knowledge. on ground] rest] [batl-1| in air | up |- Fig. 19.2 An Envisionment 19.2 COMMON SENSE ONTOLOGIES A computer program that interacts with the real world must be able to reason about things like time, space, and materials. As fundamental and commonsensical as these concepts may be, modeling them tums out to present some thomy problems. 19.2.1 Time While physicists and philosophers still debate the true nature of time, we all manage to get by on a few basic common sense notions. These notions help us to decide when to initiate actions, how to reason about others actions, and how to determine relationships between events. For instance, if we know that the Franco-Prussian War preceded World War I and that the Battle of Verdun occurred during World War I, then we can easily infer that the Battle of Verdun must Have occurred sometime after the Franco-Prussian War. A common sense theory of time must account for reasoning of this kind. The most basic notion of time is that it is occupied by events. These events occur during intervals, continuous spaces of time. What kinds of things might we want to say about an interval? An interval has a starting point and an ending point, and a duration defined by these points. Intervals can be related to other intervals, as we saw in the last paragraph. It tums out that there are exactly thirteen ways in which two non-empty tim