urfaces are illuminated not only by the light
sources, but also by the light reflected from other surfaces in the scene that effectively serve
assecondary light sources. These mutual illumination effects are quite significant and make
itquitedifficulttopredicttherelationshipbetweenthenormalandtheimagebrightness. Two
surface patches with the same normal might have quite different brightnesses, because one
receives light reflected from a large white wall and the other faces only a dark bookcase.
Despite these difficulties, the problem is important. Humans seem to be able to ignore the
effects of interreflections and get a useful perception of shape from shading, but we know
frustratingly littleaboutalgorithms todothis.
24.4.6 Contour
When we look at a line drawing, such as Figure 24.21, we get a vivid perception of three-
dimensional shapeandlayout. How? Itisacombination ofrecognition offamiliarobjectsin
thesceneandtheapplication ofgeneric constraints suchasthefollowing: Occluding contours, such as the outlines of the hills. Oneside ofthe contour is nearer
totheviewer, theotherside isfarther away. Features suchaslocal convexity andsym-
954 Chapter 24. Perception
Figure24.21 Anevocativelinedrawing.(Courtesyof Isha Malik.)
metryprovidecuestosolvingthefigure-groundproblem assigning whichsideofthe
FIGURE-GROUND
contour is figure (nearer), and which is ground (farther). At an occluding contour, the
lineofsightistangential tothesurfaceinthescene. T-junctions. When one object occludes another, the contour of the farther object is
interrupted,assumingthatthenearerobjectisopaque. AT-junctionresultsintheimage. Position on the ground plane. Humans, like many other terrestrial animals, are very
ofteninascenethatcontainsagroundplane,withvariousobjectsatdifferentlocations
GROUNDPLANE
onthis plane. Because ofgravity, typical objects don t floatinairbut aresupported by
thisgroundplane,andwecanexploittheveryspecialgeometryofthisviewingscenario.
Let us work out the projection of object