 in ovals. The direction of the arrow corresponds to the order of the arguments in the relation they connect. The last or nth arc (argument) points away from the circle relation and all other arcs point toward the relation. Concept symbols refer to entities, actions, properties, or events in the world. A concept may be individual or generic. Individual concepts have a type field followed by a referrent field. The concept IPERSON:joe] has type PERSON and referrent Joe. Ret'errents like joe and food in Figure 7.5 are called individual concepts since they refer to specific entities. EAT and SPOON have no referrent fields since they are generic concepts which refer to unspecified entities. Concepts like AGENT. OBJECT, INSTRUMENT, and PART are obtained from a collection of standard concepts. New concepts and relations can also be defined from these basic ones. PERSOr'jo I'I EI' EE H FOOD: op INSTRUMENT t SPOON Fiur 7.5 A conceptual graph. Sec. 7.2 Associative Networks 133 A linear conceptual graph fonnwhich is easier to present as text can also be given. The linear form equivalent to the above sentence is (PERSON :joel (AGENT) IEATI- (OBJECT) -.IFOOD:soupl (INSTRUMENT) [SPOON) where square brackets have replaced concept boxes and parentheses have replaced relation circles. The language of conceptual graphs is formed from upper. and lowercase letters of the alphabet, boxes and circles, directed arcs, and a number of special characters including .. ?, !, . #. @. V. -. ", :. I. J. (. ). -'.. 4-. {, and }. Some symbols are, used to exhibit the structure of the graph, while others are used to determine the referrents. The dash signifies continuation.of the linear graph on the next line. The question mark is used to signify a query about a concept when placed in the referrent field: [HOUSE:?] means which house? The exclamation mark is used for emphasis to draw attention to a concept. The asterisk signifies a variable or unspecified object: IHOUSE:*xl means a house or some hous