ar and
t
Pulse Rate , andstate variables, such as Blood Sugar and Stomach Contents . (Notice that
t t t
Blood Sugar and Measured Blood Sugar arenotthesamevariable; thisishowwedealwith
t t
noisymeasurements ofactualquantities.)
Theintervalbetweentimeslicesalsodependsontheproblem. Fordiabetesmonitoring,
asuitable interval might beanhourrather than aday. Inthis chapter weassume theinterval
between slices is fixed, so we can label times by integers. We will assume that the state
sequencestartsatt 0;forvariousuninterestingreasons,wewillassumethatevidencestarts
arrivingatt 1ratherthant 0. Hence,ourumbrellaworldisrepresentedbystatevariables
R , R , R ,... and evidence variables U , U ,.... We will use the notation a:b to denote
0 1 2 1 2
the sequence of integers from a to b (inclusive), and the notation X to denote the set of
a:b
variables from X to X . Forexample, U corresponds tothevariables U ,U ,U .
a b 1:3 1 2 3
1 Uncertaintyovercontinuoustimecanbemodeledbystochasticdifferentialequations(SD Es). Themodels
studiedinthischaptercanbeviewedasdiscrete-timeapproximationsto SD Es.
568 Chapter 15. Probabilistic Reasoning over Time
(a) X X X X X
t 2 t 1 t t 1 t 2
(b) X X X X X
t 2 t 1 t t 1 t 2
Figure15.1 (a)Bayesiannetworkstructurecorrespondingtoafirst-order Markovprocess
withstatedefinedbythevariables Xt. (b)Asecond-order Markovprocess.
15.1.2 Transitionandsensormodels
With the set of state and evidence variables for a given problem decided on, the next step is
to specify how the world evolves (the transition model) and how the evidence variables get
theirvalues(thesensormodel).
Thetransitionmodelspecifiestheprobabilitydistribution overthelateststatevariables,
given the previous values, that is, P(X t X 0:t 1 ). Now we face a problem: the set X 0:t 1 is
MARKOV unbounded insizeastincreases. Wesolvetheproblembymakinga Markovassumption ASSUMPTION
that thecurrent state depends ononly a finite fixed number ofprevious states. Processes sat-
isfyingthisassumption werefirststudiedin