l enough system must contain not only the real elements that one is reasoning about, but also reified elements that are created for the complex process of reasoning. We tend to think of a person as a unit that exists as a whole. But a person is made up parts. We say my brain or my heart , but the I that we use refers to a reified element. Our brains and hearts are in turn made up of parts, and we can do this process of deconstruction till we are talking about individual atoms. Or even subatomic particles. A person is just a collection of a vast number of atoms, estimated, for an adult, to be around 1027. Surely we cannot reason with all 1027 of them, and we think in terms of hands and feet and arms and legs of a person . Predicates relate to concepts, since they are an abstract description or characterization of a subset of the world. Let us assume for the sake of illustration that we think of the real domain as consisting only of humans, other life forms, and some physical objects. We look at some predicates we need to define in order to be able to reason about the tasks that an agent might want to do. Most of the predicate names that we will begin with are taken from a natural language, in our case English. This is because language has been the medium of knowledge exchange, and it is easiest for humans to deal with. But we shall also try and look at representations from a language independent perspective, independent of the grammatical rules of natural languages. 13.1.1 Categories and Relations The risaptest.kinds of concepts are categories, defined by unary predicates. The following are examples some of which we are already familiar with, We, give an English language definition alongside. . Man(X) :Xis aman Human(xX) : X is a human being Block(X) : X is a block Prism(X) :Xis a prism Fruit(X) : Xis a fruit CitrusFruit(X) : Xis a citrus fruit Each such predicate is interpreted in the domain as a subset of the domain, and each defines a category. A category may be r