for the following: (a) Pompeian(Marcus), Blacksmith(Marcus) (b) Mary gave the green flowered vase to her favorite cousin. 2. Suppose we want to use a semantic net to discover relationships that could help in disambiguating the word bank in the sentence John went downtown to deposit his money in the bank. The financial institution meaning for bank should be preferred over the river bank meaning. (a) Construct a semantie net that contains representations for the relevant concepts. (b} Show how intersection seareh could be used to find the connection between the correct meaning for bank and the rest of the sentence more easily than it can find a connection with the incorrect meaning. 3. Construct partitioned semantic net representations for the following: (a) Every batter hit a ball. (b) All the batters like the pitcher. 4. Construct one consistent frame representation of all the baseball knowledge that was described in this chapter. You will need to choose between the two representations for team that we considered. 5. Modify the property inheritance algorithm of Section 9.2 to work for multiple-valued attributes, such as the attribute believes-in-principles, defined as follows: 206 Artificial Intelligence NN RST SITY believes-in-principles instance : Slot domain : Person range : Philosophical-Principles single-valued : FALSE 6. Define the value of a multiple-valued slot S of class C to be the union of the values that are found for S and all its generalizations at C and all its generalizations. Modify your technique to allow a class to exclude specific values that are associated with one or more of its superclasses. 7. Pick a problem area and represent some knowledge about it the way we represented baseball knowledge in this chapter. 8. How would you classify and represent the various types of triangles? CHAPTER 10 STRONG SLOT-AND-FILLER STRUCTURES Int the 1960s and 19705, students frequently asked, Which kind of representation is best? and T usually replied that we d