ed by heuristics may not be very good in the worst case, worst cases rarely arise in the real world. For example, although many graphs are not separable (or even nearly so) and thus cannot be considered as a set of small problems rather than one large one, a lot of graphs describing the real world are. e Trying to understand why a heuristic works, or why it doesn t work, often leads to a deeper understanding of the problem. One of the best descriptions of the importance of heuristics in solving interesting problems is How to Solve it (Polya, 1957}. Although the focus of the book-is the solution of mathematical problems, many of the techniques it describes are more generally applicable. For example, given a problem to solve, look for a similar problem you have solved before. Ask whether you can use either the solution of that problem or the method that was used to obtain the solution to help solve the new problem. Polya s work serves as an excellent guide for people who want to become better problem solvers. Unfortunately, it is not a panacea for Al for a couple of reasons. One is that it relies on human abilities that we must first understand well enough to build into a program. For example, many of the problems Polya discusses are geometric ones in which once an appropriate picture is drawn, the answer can be seen immediately. But to exploit such techniques in programs, we must develop a good way of representing and manipulating descriptions of those Fig.s. Another is that the tules are very general. They have extremely underspecified left sides, so it is hard to use them to guide a search too many of them are applicable at once. Many of the rules are really only useful for looking back and rationalizing a solution after it has been found. In essence, the problem is that Polya s rules have not been operationalized. Nevertheless, Polya was several steps ahead of Al. A comment he made in the preface to the first printing (1944) of the book is interesting in this resp