variable, and enumerate the components that played a role in the two derivations. The set of components, or more precisely the assumptions that they are not broken, forms a conflict set. In the process of exploring different variables, one will have to discard (a) conflicts that are replicated, and (b) conflicts that are subsumed (are supersets of) other conflicts. In their 1987 paper describing the GDE, de Kleer and Brown introduce the notion of an environment which stands for a set of assumptions. If the environment leads to a contradiction (a discrepancy) then it becomes a conflict set. Since one is interested only in the minimal conflicts, one can explore the environments starting with the smallest. At any given point if an environment becomes inconsistent then it becomes a conflict. Inconsistency can be checked using a proof procedure (for example, the resolution refutation method augmented to recognize the contradiction in clauses like 6 6 10). If an environment becomes a conflict then its ancestors in the lattice too need not be investigated. Otherwise, it is refined into several environments by adding a new assumption. As a corollary, if some descendent (generalization) of an environment is a conflict, then it need not be investigated. GDE employs an inference procedure in which the inferred sentences, or beliefs, are supported by an environment in which they are inferred, and the support is noted explicitly as a justification. Let P(OBS, ENV) be the set of inferences made by the system, given the observations OBS and the environment ENV. One of the ways of generating new data is to keep input values constant and make some additional measurements at some internal terminal in the device' . When one does that then the inferences made by the system before the measurement M still hold, and a few additional inferences may be made. That is, P(OBS, ENV) c P(OBSU M , ENV) This implies that as we make new measurements, we need to do the inferences only incrementally,