ge has also been considered. It is interesting to note that with these numerical values too, Experience has been the attribute that is chosen first, though the algorithm is designed to make a two-way split only. Again, here the Hands-On attribute plays a significant role in classifying elements. The new attribute Age too makes an appearance in some places. The reader is encouraged to add one more attribute Gender from Table 15.3 and investigate whether that plays a role too. Implementations of the algorithms D3, C4.5 and C5.0 are available on the Web , for those not inclined to try their own coding skills. In supervised learning, a teacher is showing the true class labels to the learning algorithm. In the absence of a teacher too, learning is possible. We look at two approaches to do so. One is when the learner ponders over the samples and tries to cluster them into similar samples. The process is called clustering, and happens in an unsupervised manner. It could be a first step towards forming concepts which can be articulated. The other is when the learner learns from the outcome of its actions when acting in an environment. By observing the (sequences of) actions that lead to a favourable outcome or an unfavourable one, the learner can tune its decision making algorithm to be biased towards actions that are more rewarding. 18.6 The K-means Clustering Algorithm The focus of this chapter till now has been supervised learning. Now, we look at clustering, a classical unsupervised learning problem. Consider a set of data points, X x1, Xo, ..., Xp in a Euclidean space where the distance between any pair of objects(x;, x;) is computed as the L2 norm and is denoted by a(x;,x;). Clustering is the task of grouping the data points into groups, such that the data points in the same group are more similar than data points across groups. Such groups discovered by a clustering technique are referred to as clusters. The algorithm K-means for clustering partitions a data set into