e design and deployment of variations of truth maintenance algorithms. 17.4.2 The ATMS in GDE and GDE In the diagnosis problem covered in Section 17.3, the assumptions are the statements about the correct function of components. They refer to statements Ab(component) or OK(component). As described in the section on Model Based Diagnosis, the rules used by the reasoning engine correspond to statements like, Multiplier(M) Ab(M) Product(output(M), input,(M), input,(M)) or OK (battery) Voltage(T,.) or OK (battery) Voltage(T ) - or (OK(Wire,) A LWire, T,, A Voltage(T,.) ) Voltage(RWire,) or (OK(bulb) A Voltage(Tbulb) Voltage(Bbulb) ) On(bulb) or (OK(bulb) A Voltage(Tbulb) A Voltage(Bbulb) ) On(bulb) and so on. The nodes in the ATMS constitute of inferred values like On(bulb;), along with their justifications as well as observed values like 10n( bulb1), which are facts or premises. Then rules like, On(bulb,) A On(bulb,) D 1 lead to contradictions which in turn lead to the identification of nogoods, which are the conflict sets used by the diagnostic engine. Thus, using the ATMS makes it possible to identify all conflict sets as more and more observations are made. This is followed by the generation of minimal candidates for diagnosis as described in Section 17.3.3. The introduction of fault models in Section 17.3.4 brought in relations between the OK statements, reproduced again below. Given F fault modes for a component C, Vi F(OK(C) DOK; (C)) and OK 4(C) A OK2(C) A ...A OKC) D OK(C) where OK(C) asserts that component C is not broken in any way, while OK; (C) says that it is not broken in the fault mode. The universally quantified statement is equivalent to a set of statements of the form OK(C) OKi(C) This gives us F 17 implication statements that can form F 1 justifications in the ATMS. However, by themselves, these justifications are circular in nature. One needs to separate the relation between different states of the component broken in a particular fault mode, or fun