ncertainty quickly gives rise to alot of
positional uncertainty and that dealing with rotational uncertainty is painful, whether
uncertainty istreated in terms of hard intervals orprobabilistically, due to the fact that
therelation betweenorientation andposition isbothnon-linearandnon-monotonic.
25.9 Consider the simplified robot shown in Figure 25.33. Suppose the robot s Cartesian
coordinates are known at all times, as are those of its goal location. However, the locations
of the obstacles are unknown. The robot can sense obstacles in its immediate proximity, as
illustrated in this figure. For simplicity, let us assume the robot s motion is noise-free, and
thestatespaceisdiscrete. Figure25.33isonlyoneexample;inthisexerciseyouarerequired
toaddress allpossible gridworldswithavalidpathfromthe starttothegoallocation.
a. Design a deliberate controller that guarantees that the robot always reaches its goal
location ifatallpossible. Thedeliberate controller canmemorizemeasurements inthe
formofamapthatisbeing acquired astherobot moves. Betweenindividual moves,it
mayspendarbitrarytimedeliberating.
Exercises 1019
b. Nowdesign a reactive controller forthe same task. Thiscontroller may not memorize
pastsensormeasurements. (Itmaynotbuildamap!) Instead,ithastomakealldecisions
based on the current measurement, which includes knowledge of its own location and
that of the goal. The time to make a decision must be independent of the environment
sizeorthenumberofpasttimesteps. Whatisthemaximumnumberofstepsthatitmay
takeforyourrobottoarriveatthegoal?
c. Howwillyourcontrollersfrom(a)and(b)performifanyofthefollowingsixconditions
apply: continuous state space, noise in perception, noise in motion, noise in both per-
ception andmotion, unknown location ofthegoal (thegoal canbedetected only when
withinsensorrange),ormovingobstacles. Foreachcondition andeachcontroller, give
anexampleofasituation wheretherobotfails(orexplainwhyitcannotfail).
25.10 In Figure25.24(b) onpage 1001, weencountered