soperational ifitis easy tosolve. Forexample,
OPERATIONALITY
the subgoal Primitive(z) is easy to solve, requiring at most two steps, whereas the subgoal
Simplify(y z,w) could lead to an arbitrary amount of inference, depending on the values
of y and z. If a test for operationality is carried out at each step in the construction of the
generalizedproof,thenwecanprunetherestofabranchassoonasanoperationalsubgoalis
found, keepingjusttheoperational subgoalasaconjunct ofthenewrule.
Unfortunately, there is usually a tradeoff between operationality and generality. More
specific subgoals are generally easier to solve but cover fewer cases. Also, operationality
is a matter of degree: one or two steps is definitely operational, but what about 10 or 100?
784 Chapter 19. Knowledgein Learning
Finally, the cost of solving a given subgoal depends on what other rules are available in the
knowledge base. It can go up or down as more rules are added. Thus, EBL systems really
face a very complex optimization problem in trying to maximize the efficiency of a given
initialknowledge base. Itissometimespossible toderiveamathematicalmodeloftheeffect
on overall efficiency of adding a given rule and to use this model to select the best rule to
add. The analysis can become very complicated, however, especially when recursive rules
are involved. One promising approach is to address the problem of efficiency empirically,
simplybyaddingseveralrulesandseeingwhichonesareusefulandactuallyspeedthingsup.
Empirical analysis of efficiency is actually at the heart of EBL. What we have been
calling loosely the efficiency of agiven knowledge base isactually the average-case com-
plexity on a distribution of problems. By generalizing from past example problems, EBL
makes the knowledge base more efficient for the kind of problems that it is reasonable to
expect. This works as long as the distribution of past examples is roughly the same as for
future examples the same assumption used for PAC-learning in Sect