art of Speech. As with WSD, determining the right Part of Speech of a word requires one to look at neighbouring words; this is referred to as the Part of Speech Tagging (POST) problem. The third property of a word is its morphology, which is its structure or form. This refers to the sequence of letters in the words. There are systematic ways in which the form of a root word (like sing ) can be changed to give birth to new words (like singing ). Individual constituents of words (like sing and ing ) are sometimes referred to as morphemes. Inflection is the process by which a new word is obtained from its root, such that the new word preserves the Part of Speech of the root word. In contrast, derivation may lead to a new word that has a different Part of Speech. Thus, the transformation sing singing is inflection, whereas the transformation cheer cheerfulness is derivation. Languages like Sanskrit have a large number of transformation rules which lead to generation of complex words by combining morphemes, most of which have specific roles in dictating the meaning of the resulting word. In contrast, inflection and derivation rules in English are simpler, though there are plenty of exceptions (the past tense of eat is ate and not eated ). Later in this chapter, we will see that Finite State Machines are useful in modelling morphological operations in English. Search engines need morphology tools that yield the root forms of words, so that a query dogs biting cats can retrieve a document titled a dog bites a caf . Another application that word processors and Google very often use is a spell-checker which tries to identify the correct word form, given its incorrectly spelt version. The fourth property of a word is its pronunciation or phonetics. This aspect is of particular importance to researchers in speech processing. Since the focus of this chapter is exclusively on processing of written (and not spoken) text, this topic is outside the scope of this chapter. Words come