as models or patterns which are then used to assist in the identification of structures appearing in monocular images. Figure 14.28 illustrates the main components of the system. The user prepares descriptions of objects or general classes of objects and their spatial relationships and subclass relationships in the form of LISP statements. For example, to model a class of screwdrivers with lengths between I and 10 inches, descriptions like the following are specified. (user variable DRIVER-LENGTH ( 10.0 INCHES)) (user-variable HANDLE-LENGTH ) 4.0 INCHES)) (user-constant HANDLE-RADIUS I' 0.5 INCHES)) (user-constant SHAFT-RADIUS ( 0.125 INCHES)) (define object SCREWDRIVER having subpart SHAFT subpart HANDLE) (define object SHAFT having cone-descriptor (define cone having main cone (define simple-cone having cross-section (define cross-section having type CIRCLE radius SHAFT-RADIUS) spine (define spine having type STRAIGHT length (- DRIVER-LENGTH HANDLE-LENGTH)) sweeping-rule CSWH) (affix HANDLE to SCREWDRIVER) (affix SHAFT to HANDLE with pos HANDLE-LEIGTH 0 0) The user descriptions are parsed al transformed by the system Into geol Tietr Ic and algebraic network representations. These repreentations provide volumetric descriptions in local coordinate systems. A graphic pre.entatiofl, the systems interpretation of the input models created by the user, provides feedback to the user during the modeling process. The completed representsikm.s are used by the system to predict what features (e.g. shape, orientation, and position) of the modeled objects can be observed from the input image components. The predicted models are stored as prediction graphs. The visual input consists of gray-level image processing arrays, a Line finder, and an edge linker. This part of the system provides descriptions of objects as defined by segmented edge structures. The descriptions created from this unit are represented as observation graphs. One output front predictor serves as an input Sec.