the top block is smaller than the bottom one but still centered on top of it, then they still MEET in the height dimension, but we must use the spatial equivalent of IS-DURING to describe the length and width relationships. The main problem with this approach is that it generates a vast number of relations (namely 137 = 2197), many of which are not very commonsensical. Moreover, a number of interesting spatial relations, such as x curves around y , are not included. So we must consider another approach. In our discussion of qualitative physics, we saw how to build abstract models by transforming real-valued variables into discrete quantity spaces. We can also view objects and spaces at various levels of abstraction. 414 Artificial Intelligence For instance, we can view a three-dimensional piece of paper as a two-dimensional sheet; similarly, we can view a three-dimensional highway as a one-dimensional curve. Hobbs [1985] proposed one very general mechanism forcreating and manipulating abstract models. With this mechanism, we start out with a fullblown theory of the world, and then we construct a simpler, more abstract model by extracting a set of relevant properties. We then group objects inte classes whose members are indistinguishable from each other as far as their relevant properties go. For example, as we drive along a highway, our major relevant property might be DISTANCE-TO-GOAL. This property effectively reduces the bits of concrete in the three-dimensional highway into a one-dimensional curve, where each point on the curve has a unique DISTANCE-TO-GOAL value. In a similar fashion, we can map real time intervals onto discrete time steps, spatial coordinates onto a two-dimensional grid, and so on. Choosing a set of relevant properties amounts to viewing the world at a particular level of granudarity. Since different granularities are systematically related to each other, we can reason in a simplified model with relative assurance that our actions will be impl