24.2 depicts some methods to calculate this for two 8-bit strings. It may be observed that the two strings are dissimilar in the two regions (designated r) which indicate the potential of the generated string to become a detector of the non self. Higher the cross reactivity higher is the life span of the detector. (ii) (iii) Table 24.2 Distance Measurements Method 10110011 11 000 11 Calculated as: Strings Comments XOR 01110100 Hamming Distance r-Contiguous Bit Pattern Multiple Contiguous Number of complementary bit 5 Positions Maximum length of continuous complementary bit positions Hamming distance + 2" (Length of contiguous Simple to compute and expresses complementarity 3 Fits from the biological perspective of gripping an object 54+2427=17 Combines the effect of both methods Bit Pattern complementary Bit positions) The mature non-self detectors are then used to catch on intrusions. They are constantly matched with the incoming 49-bit strings generated by the network. Such a detector becomes activated only when it crosses the activation threshold. Every time a match is found a counter is incremented. This count however decays with time. Only when the count reaches a value equal to the activation threshold din a given time, does the detector become activated. The count is reset on this activation. Lower the value of 6, higher is the sensitivity since lesser number of string matches will cause the activation. To make things more stringent every node has its own local sensitivity @. This further increases the sensitivity. As new bit strings circulate through the network, many detectors are activated with several degrees of matching based on the number of r-contizucus matches made. Out of these the best ones graduate to become the memory cells or memory detectors. These then clone (replicate) and spread across the network thus raising the effectiveness of intrusion detection. Thus when the intrusive bit-string reaches another node already Artificial Immune Systems 48