 network, a match would be found with word position 1. This would result in CND being updated to N2 and POS to position 2. The next word (big) satisfies the ADJ test causing CND to be updated to N2 again, and POS to be updated to position 3. The ADJ test is then repeated for the word tree, but it fails. Hence, the arc test for N is made next with no change made to l'OS and CND. This time the test succeeds resulting in updates of N4 to CND and position 4 to POS. The next test is the POP which signals a successful completion of the NP network and causes the return node (SI) to be retrieved from the RUST stack and CND to be updated with S2. POP does not cause an advance in the-word position POS. The only possible test from S2 is for category V which succeeds on the word "shades" with resultant updates of S5 to CND and 5 to POS. At S5, the only possible test is the NP. This again invokes a call to the lower level NP network which is traversed successfully with the noun phrase "the old house. After a return to the main network, CND is set to S6 and POS is set to position b. At this point, the lower PP network is called with CND being set to Pt and So pushed onto RLIST. From P1. the CAT test for PREP passes with CND being set to P2 and POS being set to 9. NP is then called with CND being set to NI and P2 being pushed onto RLIST. As before, the NP network is traversed with the noun phrase "the stream" resulting in a POS value of II, P3 being popped from RLIST and a return to that node. The test at P3 (POP) results in S6 being popped from RLIST and a return to the S6 node. Finally, the POP test at N6. together with the period at position II results in a successful traversal and acceptance of the sentence. During a network traversal, a parse can fail if (I) the end of the input sentence (a period) has been reached when the test from the CND node value is not a terminal (POP) value or(2) if a word in the input sentence fails to satisfy any of the available arc tests from some