ce of
propositional logic, is there an assignment of truth values to the proposition symbols of the
sentence that makes it true? Unless a miracle occurs and P NP, there can be no algorithm
that solves all satisfiability problems in polynomial time. However, AI is more interested in
whether there are algorithms that perform efficiently on typical problems drawn from a pre-
determineddistribution; aswesawin Chapter7,therearealgorithmssuchas WALKSAT that
doquitewellonmanyproblems.
Theclassco-NPisthecomplementof NP,inthesensethat,foreverydecision problem
CO-NP
in NP,thereisacorresponding problem inco-NPwiththe yes and no answers reversed.
We know that P is a subset of both NP and co-NP, and it is believed that there are problems
inco-NPthatarenotin P.Theco-NP-completeproblemsarethehardestproblemsinco-NP.
CO-NP-COMPLETE
Theclass P (pronounced sharp P )is the set of counting problems corresponding to
thedecision problems in NP.Decision problems haveayes-or-no answer: isthere asolution
tothis 3-SA Tformula? Counting problems have aninteger answer: how many solutions are
there to this 3-SAT formula? In some cases, the counting problem is much harder than the
decision problem. For example, deciding whether a bipartite graph has a perfect matching
canbedone intime O(VE)(where thegraph has V vertices and E edges), butthecounting
problem howmanyperfectmatchesdoesthisbipartitegraph have is P-complete,meaning
thatitishardasanyproblem in Pandthusatleastashardasany NPproblem.
Anotherclassistheclassof PSPAC Eproblems thosethatrequireapolynomialamount
ofspace,evenonanondeterministic machine. Itisbelieved that PSPACE-hardproblemsare
worse than NP-complete problems, although it could turn out that NP PSPACE,just as it
couldturnoutthat P NP.
A.2 VECTORS, MATRICES, AND LINEAR ALGEBRA
Mathematicians define a vector as a memberof a vector space, but wewilluse amore con-
VECTOR
crete definition: avectorisanordered sequence ofvalues. Forexample, intwo-dimensional
space, we have vectors such 