 in a distributed fashion across the entire rat cortex. Such a memory organization has been described using a hologram metaphor, in reference to the holographic storage medium, which allows the reconstruction of the entire image from just a portion of the recording (although the reconstructed image may be of poorer quality than the original). Work on distributed representations brings this metaphor down to an implementational level. In addition to being more robust than localist representations, distributed representations can also be more efficient. Consider the problem of describing the locations of objects on a two-dimensional 8 by 8 grid [Hinton et al., 1986]. In a symbolic implementation, this task is easy: A location can be stored simply as a list of two numbers, e.g., (2 3). Multiple object locations can be stored easily in this notation, as a list of lists: ((2 3) (6 5) (7 1)). How can we accomplish the same task with neuronlike units? The localist approach is to maintain an array of sixty-four units, one unit for every possible location (see Fig. 18.25). A more efficient approach would be to use a group of eight units for the x-axis and another group of eight units for the y-axis, as in Fig. 18.26. To represent the location (2 3), we activate two units: the second unit of the x-axis group and the third unit of the y-axis group. The other 14 units remain inactive. This method is not very damage resistant, however, and it will not support the representation of multiple object locations. To represent both (2 3) and (6 5) would require turning on two x-axis units and two y-axis units. But then we get the following binding problem: it is impossible to tell which of the four x-y pairs (2 3), (2 5), (6 3), and (6 5) correspond to actual object locations. There is a distributed representation for solving this problem it is called coarse coding. In coarse coding, we divide the space of possible object locations into a number of large, overlapping, circular zones. Se