 block directly on top of it.! In order to specify both the conditions under which an operation may be performed and the results of performing it, we need to use the following predicates: ON(A, B} Block A is on block B. ONTABLE(A) Block A is on the table. CLEAR(A) There is nothing on top of block A. HOLDING(A) The arm is holding block A. ARMEMPTYThe arm is holding nothing. Various logical statements are true in this blocks world. For example, {ax : HOLDING()] ~ARMEMPTY Vx : ONTABLE(x) dy : ONG,y) Wx: [dy - ON(y, x)} CLEAR(x) The first of these statements says simply that if the arm is hoiding anything, then it is not empty. The second says that if a block is on the table, then it is not also on another block. The third says that any block with no blocks on it is clear. 13.3. COMPONENTS OF A PLANNING SYSTEM In problem-solving systems based on the elementary techniques discussed in Chapter 3, it was necessary to perform each of the following functions: Actually, by careful alignment, two blocks could be placed on top of one, but we ignore that possibility. | | | j } | | Planning 251 see ypevane manne pr ARES Choose the best mule to apply next based on the best available heuristic information. Apply the chosen rule to compute the new problem state that arises from its application. Detect when a solution has been found. Detect dead ends so that they can be abandoned and the system s effort directed in more fruitful directions. In the more complex systems we are about to explore, techniques for doing each of these tasks are also required. In addition, a fifth operation is often important: Detect when an almost correct solution has been found and employ special techniques to make it totally correct. Before we discuss specific planning methods, we need to look briefly at the ways in which each of these five things can be done. Choosing Rules to Apply . The most widely used technique for selecting appropriate rules to apply is first to isolate a set of differences between t