futuredate,the AIendeavorhasbeencompletelysuccess-
ful;thatis,wehavebuildintelligent agentscapableofcarryingoutanyhumancognitivetask
athumanlevelsofability. Towhatextentwouldthatshedlightontheseissues?
26.6 Comparethesocialimpactofartificialintelligenceinthelastfiftyyearswiththesocial
impact of the introduction of electric appliances and the internal combustion engine in the
fiftyyearsbetween1890and1940.
26.7 I. J. Good claims that intelligence is the most important quality, and that building
ultraintelligent machines will change everything. A sentient cheetah counters that Actually
speedismoreimportant;ifwecouldbuildultrafastmachines,thatwouldchangeeverything, and a sentient elephant claims You re both wrong; what we need is ultrastrong machines. Whatdoyouthinkofthesearguments?
26.8 Analyzethepotentialthreatsfrom AItechnologytosociety. Whatthreatsaremostse-
rious,andhowmighttheybecombated? Howdotheycomparetothepotentialbenefits?
26.9 Howdothepotentialthreatsfrom AItechnology comparewiththosefromothercom-
putersciencetechnologies, andtobio-,nano-, andnuclear technologies?
26.10 Some critics object that AI is impossible, while others object that it is too possible
and that ultraintelligent machines pose a threat. Which of these objections do you think is
morelikely? Woulditbeacontradiction forsomeonetoholdbothpositions?
27
AI: THE PRESENT AND
FUTURE
Inwhichwetakestockofwhereweareandwherewearegoing,thisbeingagood
thingtodobeforecontinuing.
In Chapter 2, we suggested that it would be helpful to view the AI task as that of designing
rational agents that is, agents whose actions maximize their expected utility given their
percept histories. We showed that the design problem depends on the percepts and actions
available to the agent, the utility function that the agent s behavior should satisfy, and the
nature of the environment. A variety of different agent designs are possible, ranging from
reflex agents to fully deliberative, knowledge-based, decision-theoretic agents.