les, and unsupervised learning.. We have already seen two examples of weak inductive learning paradigms in the previous chapter: learning automata and genetic algorithms. In this chapter we will see different kinds of examples which use the more traditional Al architecture. In the remainder of this and the following chapter, we will study the inductive learning process and look at several traditional Al learning systems based on inductive learning paradigms. We begin in the next two sections with definitions of important terms and descriptions of some essential tools used in the learning systems which follow. 18.3 SOME DEFINSTIONS In this section we introduce some important terms and concepts related to inductive learning. Many of the terms we define will have significance in other areas as well. Our model of learning is the model described in Section 16.4. As you may recall, our learner component is presented with training examples from a teacher or from the environment. The examples may be positive instances only or both positive and negative. They may be selected, well-organized examples or they may be presented in a haphazard manner and contain much irrelevant information Finally. the examples may be correctly labeled as positive or negative instances of some concept, they may be unlabeled, or they may even contain erroneous labels. Whatever the scenario, we must be careful to describe it appropriately. Given (I) the observations. (2) certain background domain knowledge, and (3) goals or other preference criteria, the task of the learner is to find an inductive assertion or target concept that implies all of the observed examples and is consistent 384 Learning by Induction Chap. 18 with both the background knowledge and goals. We formalize the above ideas with the following definitions (Hunt et al.. 1966, and Rendell. 1985). Definitions Object. Any entity, physical or abstract, which can be described by a set of attribute (feature) values and attribute relations