ut
thatdoesnotmakeusthinklessof Lucas. Totakeanotherexample,nohumancouldcompute
the sum of a billion 10 digit numbers in his or her lifetime, but a computer could do it in
seconds. Still, wedonotseethisasafundamental limitation inthehuman s ability tothink.
Humanswerebehavingintelligentlyforthousandsofyearsbeforetheyinventedmathematics,
soitisunlikelythatformalmathematicalreasoningplaysmorethanaperipheralroleinwhat
itmeanstobeintelligent.
Third, and most important, even if we grant that computers have limitations on what
they can prove, there is no evidence that humans are immune from those limitations. It is
all too easy to show rigorously that a formal system cannot do X, and then claim that hu-
manscando X usingtheirowninformalmethod,withoutgivinganyevidenceforthisclaim.
Indeed, itisimpossible toprovethathumansarenotsubjectto Go del sincompleteness theo-
rem,becauseanyrigorousproofwouldrequireaformalizationoftheclaimedunformalizable
human talent, and hence refute itself. So weare left with an appeal to intuition that humans
can somehow perform superhuman feats of mathematical insight. This appeal is expressed
witharguments suchas wemustassumeourownconsistency, ifthought istobepossible at
all (Lucas, 1976). But if anything, humans are known to be inconsistent. This is certainly
true for everyday reasoning, but it is also true for careful mathematical thought. A famous
example is the four-color map problem. Alfred Kempe published a proof in 1879 that was
widely accepted and contributed to his election as a Fellow of the Royal Society. In 1890,
however,Percy Heawoodpointed outaflawandthetheorem remainedunproveduntil1977.
1024 Chapter 26. Philosophical Foundations
26.1.3 The argument from informality
Oneofthemostinfluentialandpersistentcriticismsof AIasanenterprise wasraisedby Tur-
ingasthe argument from informality ofbehavior. Essentially, this istheclaim thathuman
behavior is fartoo complex to be captured by any simple set of rules and that because com-
puters cand