lt constituents in the C-list. But one still needs to be careful as demonstrated in the processing of noun phrases in the heuristics proposed by Gershman (1977). The basic idea that Gersham proposed was that the top down processing of the sentence should be suspended when the parser is looking at a noun, and should resume only when the end of the noun phrase occurs. The control algorithm needs to switch between the top down predictive and the bottom up agglomerative modes of processing. A well known example is the phrase cat food can cover . Observe that processing the sentences left to right one will end up recognizing the following, before having to revise the structure. For example, each of the following would have been a valid conceptualization, but for the words that follow it, He picked up the cat. (The object is the cat) He picked up the cat food. (The object is the food) He picked up the cat food can. (The object is the can) He picked up the cat food can cover. (The object is the cover) Human beings often run into difficulties incorporating the bottom up mode needed for processing such sentences and end up backtracking and discarding the partial structures they have built while listening to or reading the sentence. Researchers have named such difficult sentences as garden path sentences, since they initially lead you astray from the final conceptualization (see for example (Ferreira et al, 2001)). Some examples of such well known sentences are, While Anna dressed the baby spit up on the bed. Mary gave the child the dog bit a band aid. The old man the boat?6, The cotton clothing is made of grows in Mississippi. What such sentences do is reinforce the idea that we humans predominantly do top down processing actively generating expectations along the way. When the expectations are not validated in garden path sentences we are forced to revise them. Such violation of expectations is often the basis of humour as well. While listening to a joke we are often led do