 (:durative action chapati tparameters (?c - chapatiDough ?s - stove ?g -ghee) :duration ( ?duration 5) :conditicn (and (at start (rolled ?c)) (at start (free ?s)) (at start (lighted ?s)) (overall (lighted ?s)) (at end (applied ghee) )) :effect (and (at start (not (free ?s))) (at start (cooking-on ?c ?s)) (at end (ccoked ?c) (at end (nct (cooking-cn ?c ?s))) (at end (free ?s))) Durative actions in PDDL2.1 have the following characteristics. Preconditions can be at the start of the action, at the end of the action and during the entire action, marked by at-start , at-end and overall before the fluents. The overall conditions are over the open interval defined by the end points of the action. Effects can be either at the start or at the end, marked by at-start and at-end . The effects are themselves instantaneous, happening either at the beginning of the action or at the end. The language does allow us to model continuous metric effects using the parameter t to represent time since the start of the action. If fuellevel is a metric fluent then one can say (decrease (fuel-level ? vehicle) ( t (consumption-rate ?vehicle)) in the effects. Continuous effects can be evaluated at any time during the interval of the duration of the action. In the example for the Chapati action, the preconditions are that a stove should be free at the start and the dough rolled, the overall conditions are that the stove should be lit throughout the action duration, and the at-end condition is that ghee has been applied (on the chapati that is cooked 8). The at-start effect of this action is that the stove is no longer free (which means that only one chapati can be made at a time on it). The stove is again made free at the end of the Chapati action, along with the chapati being in a cooked state. Another example of a durative action is when one drives a car from point A to point B. The action needs the following conditions at the start the agent should be at point A, a car should be available, 