 logic. First-order logic commits to the existence of objects and
relationsamongthemandcanexpressfactsaboutsomeoralloftheobjectsinadomain. This
oftenresultsinrepresentations thatarevastlymoreconcise thantheequivalent propositional
descriptions. Now, Bayesian networks are essentially propositional: the set of random vari-
ables is fixed and finite, and each has a fixed domain of possible values. This fact limits the
applicability of Bayesian networks. If wecan find a wayto combine probability theory with
theexpressive poweroffirst-order representations, weexpecttobeabletoincreasedramati-
callytherangeofproblemsthatcanbehandled.
Forexample, suppose that an online book retailer would like to provide overall evalu-
ations of products based on recommendations received from its customers. The evaluation
will take the form of a posterior distribution over the quality of the book, given the avail-
able evidence. Thesimplest solution tobase theevaluation ontheaverage recommendation,
perhaps withavariance determinedbythenumberofrecommendations, butthisfailstotake
intoaccountthefactthatsomecustomersarekinderthanothersandsomearelesshonestthan
others. Kind customers tend to give high recommendations even to fairly mediocre books,
while dishonest customers give very high or very low recommendations for reasons other
thanquality forexample, theymightworkforapublisher.6
For a single customer C , recommending a single book B , the Bayes net might look
1 1
like the one shown in Figure 14.17(a). (Just as in Section 9.1, expressions with parentheses
suchas Honest(C )arejustfancysymbols inthiscase,fancynamesforrandomvariables.)
1
6 Agametheoristwouldadviseadishonestcustomertoavoiddetectionbyoccasionallyrecommendingagood
bookfromacompetitor.See Chapter17.
540 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
Withtwocustomers andtwobooks, the Bayesnetlooks like the onein Figure14.17(b). For
larger numbers of books and customers, it becomes completely impractical to specify the
networkbyhand.
Fortunatel