en be manipulated with resolution. Working through a translation of a slot-and-filler structure to logic helps clear up what are often imprecisely specified reasoning methods in these structures. In practical terms, however, moving to logic means losing efficiency. For example, a typical slot-and-filler system has procedures for doing property inheritance that are much faster than doing property inheritance via resolution-based theorem proving. Part of the inefficiency of general reasoning methods like resolution can be overcome by intelligent indexing schemes, but the more heavily cross-indexed predicate logic clauses are, the more they come to resemble slot-and-filler structures. On the other hand, it is difficult to express assertions more complex than inheritance in slot-and-filler structures. Is it possible to create a hybrid representational structure that combines the advantages of slot-andfiller structures with the advantages of predicate logic? We have already seen one system (CYC) that maintains both a logical (epistemological level) and frame-based (heuristic level) version of each fact. Another system, called KRYPTON [Brachman et al., 1985], divides its knowledge into two distinct repositories, called the TBox and the ABox. The TBox is a slot-and-filler structure that contains terminological information. In it are concepts like person, car, and person with three children. The ABox contains logical assertions, such as Every person with three children owns a car. The atomic predicates used in ABox assertions refer to concepts defined in the TBox. In logic-based systems, predicates such as triangle and polygon are primitive notions, These primitives are tied to one another via assertions, e.g., isa(triangle, polygon) and isa(rectangle, polygon). KRYPTON relates concepts like triangle and polygon termino-logically, in the TBox, rather than assertionally. Thus we can do efficient terminological reasoning in the TBox and more general reasoning in the ABox. Ter