sion could be motivated by one or more distinct communication goals. An example of a communication goal is to make the information in a data like a map accessible to the blind. This can be achieved by having a speech synthesis system that renders the generated text into sound. A second goal could present the underlying data in a form that is more understandable to the lay user. This is true of systems that generate summaries of medical records, or explanations for reasoning performed by expert systems. Another potential application is automated tutoring systems. NLG can be used to automate routine tasks like generation of memos, letters or simulation reports. At the creative end of the spectrum, an ambitious goal of NLG would be to compose jokes, advertisements, stories and poetry. An NLG solution may be appropriate in some situations, and less appropriate in others. For example, a graphical display like a bar chart may be more effective in depicting a comparative analysis of percapita income of Indian cities than a paragraph of verbose text. On the other hand, a textual description is more appropriate to present a technical argument explaining the differing per capita incomes. There are pragmatic considerations as well. A short piece of generated text may be easily sent over a mobile device, a picture may need more bandwidth. More often than not, we have to critically analyse the advantages of human authoring vis a vis automated generation. It could be that some of the knowledge required for generating text of acceptable quality is tacit and hence not available readily to the NLG system. In the other extreme, NLG may be an overkill in certain applications where a simple concatenation of strings (a canned text) may suffice. NLG is useful in situations where linguistic constraints need to be respected, and quality of generated text is important. Also, NLG systems have an advantage over humans, in that the texts generated by NLG systems are more consistent. Having sai