fuzzy engine. After a study of the system we could write linguistic tules (so akin to natural language) such as RI: R2: R3: R4: RS: R6: R7: R8: If temperature is HOT and fan motor speed is SLACK then flow-rate is HIGH-POSITIVE. If temperature is HOT and fan motor speed is LOW then flow-rate is HIGH-POSITIVE If temperature is HOT and fan motor speed is MEDIUM then the flow-rate is POSITIVE. If temperature is HOT and fan motor speed is BRISK then the flow-rate is HIGH-POSITIVE. Jf temperature is WARM and fan motor speed is MEDIUM then the flow-rate is LOW-POSITIVE, If temperature is WARM and fan motor speed is BRISK then the flow-rate is POSITIVE. Tf temperature is COOL and fan motor speed is LOW then flow-rate is NEGATIVE. If temperature is MODERATE and fan motor speed is LOW then flow-rate is MEDIUM. The reader is urged to write the remaining set of rules based on the requirement of the system. 450 Artificial Intelligence [REN c A A END TLE EEOT Fuzzification The fuzzifier forms the heart of the fuzzy engine. Whenever the sensors report the values of temperature and fan speed, they are mapped based on their memberships to the respective fuzzy regions they belong to. For instance if at some instance of time t the temperature is 42 degrees and fan speed is 3] rpm, the corresponding membership values and the associated fuzzy regions are mentioned below Parameter Fuzzy Regions Memberships Temperature warm, hot 0.142, 0.2 Fan speed medium, brisk 0.25,0.286 From the table, since both temperature and fan speed belong to two regions, it is clear that the rules R3, R4, RS and R6 are applicable. The rules indicate a conflict. While two of them state that the flow-rate should be POSITIVE, the other two state that it should be LOW-POSITIVE and HIGH-POSITIVE respectively. Though we have resolved the issue of what could be the flow rates, the actual crisp value still eludes us. Defuzzifier This is where we have to demystify these fuzzy terms for the flow rate controller system. I