e degree.21 Modern Description Logics have the same compositional flavour, though the operations allowed for combination are more generalized and diverse. There are a number of languages of varying expressivity and completeness in the family of Description Logics (see (Baader et al., 2003)). There has been considerable amount of work on Description Logics owing to their attractiveness as the basis of languages for defining meta data on the Web. We confine our study to a simple version described in (Brachman and Levesque, 2004). The main feature we want to explore is how taxonomies can be derived from descriptions, and how one can use the descriptions to answer questions relating to the abstraction hierarchy. 14.7.1 The DL language The DL language, like the First-Order Language (FOL), also comprises two parts, the logical part, that is the core of the language, and the nonlogical part that pertains to the domain. The vocabulary of logical symbols of DL is made up of the punctuation symbols , , ( and ) ; the connectives , , and ; the concept forming operators ALL , EXISTS , FILLS and AND ; and the set of positive integers 1, 2, 3,.... The nonlogical symbols are of three types, Atomic Concepts Atomic concepts, like Girl , Student which are basic concepts of the language. They define the primitives in terms of which other concepts are defined, for example a school that has only girl students . Atomic concepts are the simplest classes or categories, and are denoted by capitalized words. Roles Roles signify relations between objects. For example, :StudentOf may be a relation between a Person and a Discipline . Roles are denoted by capitalized words preceded by a colon. Constants Constants refer to elements in the domain, denoted by uncapitalized words, like aditi or book21. The Description Logic DL is a language for describing concepts or subsets of the domain D. The simplest concepts are described by the atomic concepts. Compound concepts are combinations of atomic conce