 the statistical ones ase Whe MOS Pray Sprache Thar whes dh wfererse ae shally ymache procedures Wak OPETRE On Knowledge Representation Summary 223 well-formed formulas (wff) regardless of what those formulas represent. Production rule systems are primarily syntactic also. The interpreters for these systems usually use only syntactic information (such as the form of the pattern on the left side, the position of the rule in the knowledge base, or the position of the matched object in short-term memory) to decide which rules to fire. Again here we see the similarity between logic and production rules as ways of representing and using knowledge. But it is possible to build production-rule systems that have more semantics embedded in them. For example, in EMYCIN and other systems that provide explicit support for certainty factors, the semantics of certainty factors are used by the rule interpreter to guide its behavior. Slot-and-filler structures are typically more semantically oriented, although they span a good distance in this spectrum. Semantic nets, as their name implies, are designed to capture semantic relationships among entities, and they are usually employed with a set of inference rules that have been specially designed to handle correctly the specific types of arcs present in the network. (For example, isa links are treated differently from most other kinds of links.) Frame systems are typically more highly structured than are semantic nets, and they contain an even larger set of specialized inference rules, including those that implement a whole array of default inheritance rules, as well as other procedures such as consistency checking. Conceptual dependency moves even further toward being a semantic rather than a syntactic representation. It provides not only the abstract structure of a representation but also a specific indication of what components the representation should contain (such as the primitive ACTs and the dependency relationships). Thus, al