wledge can take several man years and cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. This process is now recognized as one of the main bottlenecks in building expert and other knowledgebased systems. Consequently, much effort has been devoted to more effective methods of acquisition and coding. Pulling together and correctly interpreting the right knowledge to solve a set 348 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 of complex tasks is an onerous job. Typically, experts do not know what specific knowledge is being applied nor just how it is applied in the solution of a given problem. Even if they do know, it Is likely they are unable to articulate the problem solving process well enough to capture the low-level knowledge used and the inferring processes applied. This difficulty has led to the use of Al experts (called knowledge engineers) who serve as intermediaries between the domain expert and the system. The knowledge engineer elicits information from the experts and codes this knowledge into a form suitable for use in the expert system. The knowledge elicitation process is depicted in Figure 15.11. To elicit the requisite knowledge. a knowlege engineer conducts extensive interviews with domain experts. During the interviews., the expert is asked to solve typical problems in the domain of interest and to explain his or her solutions. Using the knowledge gained front experts and other sources, the knowledge engineer codes the knowledge in the form of rules or some other representation scheme. This knowledge is then used to solve sample problems for review and validation by the experts. Errors and omissions are uncovered and corrected, and additional knowledge is added as needed. The process is repeated until a sufficient body of knowledge has been collected to solve a large class of problems in the chosen domain. The whole process may take as many as tens of person years. Penny Nit, an experienced knowledge engineer at Stanford University, has described some useful practices