ay of constraints. In the speech recognition literature, there is a quantitative measure of grammar, called perplexity. Perplexity measures the number of words that can legally appear next in the input (on average). The telephone number recognition task has a perplexity of 10, because at any decision point, there are ten alternatives. On a sample 1000-word English task, a word-pair grammar may reduce the perplexity from 1000 down to 60. A bigram grammar may reduce it further, perhaps to 20 [Lee and Hon. 1988]. While natural language grammars accurately predict word categories (such as noun and verb), they say nothing about which words within a category are likely to show up in the input. For example, given the word the, a grammar might hypothesize that the next word is either an adjective or a noun. But this knowledge does us little good when there are thousands of possible adjectives and nouns to choose from. Thus, it is natural to turn to statistical, or collocational, facts about language. For example, if the word doctor is recognized, then one might expect to hear the word nurse later in the input, but not Norse. Collocational data, unlike more complex syntactic and semantic structures, can be extracted automatically from large online bodies of text. Ultimately, we want to substitute semantic and discourse information for statistical data. If we know the conversation is about doctors, and if we know that doctors and nurses typically work together, then we should be able to generate the proper expectations. Such a strategy will require large knowledge bases and a deeper understanding of semantics and discourse. 21.3 ACTION Mobility and intelligence seem to have evolved together. Immobile creatures have little use for intelligence, while it is intelligence that puts mobility to effective use. In this section, we investigate the nature of mobility in terms of how robots navigate through the world and manipulate objects. 21.3.1 Navigation Navigation means moving aro