sk, in which the query really is a question, and the answer is not a ranked list
of documents but rather a short response a sentence, or even just a phrase. There have
been question-answering NLP (natural language processing) systems since the 1960s, but
onlysince2001havesuchsystemsused Webinformation retrievaltoradically increase their
breadthofcoverage.
The ASKMSR system (Bankoetal., 2002) isatypical Web-based question-answering
system. It is based on the intuition that most questions will be answered many times on the
Web, so question answering should be thought of as a problem in precision, not recall. We
don t have to deal with all the different ways that an answer might be phrased we only
have to find one of them. For example, consider the query Who killed Abraham Lincoln? Suppose a system had to answer that question with access only to a single encyclopedia,
whoseentryon Lincolnsaid
John Wilkes Booth altered history with a bullet. He will foreverbe known as the man
whoended Abraham Lincoln slife.
Tousethispassagetoanswerthequestion, thesystem wouldhavetoknowthatendingalife
canbeakilling,that He refersto Booth,andseveralother linguistic andsemanticfacts.
Section22.4. Information Extraction 873
ASKMS Rdoesnotattemptthiskindofsophistication itknowsnothingaboutpronoun
reference,oraboutkilling,oranyotherverb. Itdoesknow15differentkindsofquestions,and
howthey canberewritten asqueries toasearch engine. Itknowsthat Who killed Abraham
Lincoln canberewritten asthequery killed Abraham Lincoln andas Abraham Lincoln
waskilled by . Itissues theserewritten queries andexamines theresults thatcomeback not the full Web pages, just the short summaries of text that appear near the query terms.
Theresultsarebrokeninto1-,2-,and3-gramsandtalliedforfrequencyintheresultsetsand
for weight: an n-gram that came back from a very specific query rewrite (such as the exact
phrase match query Abraham Lincoln was killed by ) would get more weight than one
from a general query rewrite, such as