image processing. In this section, we investigate how we can transform raw camera images into useful information about the world. A video camera provides a computer with an image represented as a two-dimensional grid of intensity levels. Each grid element, or pixel, may store a single bit of information (that is, black/white) or many bits (perhaps a real-valued intensity measure and color information). A visual image is composed of thousands of pixels. What kinds of things might we want to do with such an image? Here are four operations, in order of increasing complexity: 1. Signal Processing Enhancing the image, either for human consumption or as input to another program. 2. Measurement Analysis For images containing a single object, determining the two-dimensional extent of the object depicted. : 3. Pattern Recognition For single-object images, classifying the object into a category drawn from a finite set of possibilities. 4. Image Understanding For images containing many objects, locating the objects in the image, classifying them, and building a three-dimensional model of the scene. See Niblack [1986] for algorithms that perform the first two operations. The third operation, pattern recognition, varies in its difficulty. It is possible to classify two-dimensional (2-D) objects, such as machine parts coming down a conveyor belt, but classifying 3-D objects is harder because of the large number of possible orientations for each object. Image understanding is the most difficult visual task, and it has been the subject of the most study in AI. While some aspects of image understanding reduce to measurement analysis and pattern recognition, the entire problem remains unsolved, because of difficulties that include the following: An image is two-dimensional, while the world is three-dimensional. Some information is necessarily lost when an image is created. One image may contain several objects, and some objects may partially occlude others, as we saw earlier in Fig. 