any of the attributes could be the problem description, and the unstated attributes, the lesson used for case completion (Burkhard, 1998), (Hayes et al., 2001). One can think of the last example as an implementation of a content addressable memory (see (Bechtel and Abrahamsen, 2002)), where objects are retrieved by describing them partially. Cases are made up of a collection of attributes and values. Similarities between cases are defined by aggregation of similarities at the attribute level. The simplest representation is when the case is simply a set of attributes with their values. These are often referred to as flat cases. More complex cases may have the attributes organized by relations between attributes and collections of attributes in framelike structures. We will look at these structured cases later. The techniques for dealing with flat cases can easily extend to structured cases. The common feature in structural CBR is that similarity between cases, or a case and a query, is computed by aggregating the similarities at the attribute level. The similarities at the attribute level are called ocal similarities, and the similarity at the case level is called global similarity. We first investigate local similarities and then look at how they are aggregated to determine global similarity. 15.1.6 Local Similarity Let A; and Az be two attributes with the same domain D. One may belong to the query, and the other correspondingly to a case. Let V; and V2 be the two values from D assigned to A; and Ap respectively. The question then is how similar the two values V; and V2 are. We need to define a similarity function simp such that, simp(V;, V2) 1 if the two values are identical or totally similar simp(V1, V2) 0 if the two values are totally dissimilar and with other values in the range 0, 1 , such that higher values reflect higher similarity. The answer depends upon the type of the domain D. It may also depend upon what the values represent. If for example the values 