lytic geometry showed an alternate symbolic way of representing lines and figures and reasoning with them. Galileo had shown that motion could be described using geometry. Descartes moved one more step away from the subject into the realm of mathematics. He said that (pure) mathematics is not concerned with any subject in particular, but with the kinds of relations that can arise in any subject of interest. This probably led to his notion of the mind as something that was concerned with manipulating symbols. He emphasized the fact that symbol systems were useful only when they came with methods and procedures for manipulating them and reasoning with them. Descartes was a dualist. He separated the mind from the body and said they were made of different kinds of substances . Minds had thoughts in them, while the physical universe operated by the physical laws of nature. This, however, led to the well known mind-body problem if minds and bodies are distinct then how do they interact? When think of typing this word, how does my thought influence my hand and fingers, which should have been behaving according to the laws of the physical world? Likewise, when the (light) photons from the garden impinge upon my retina, how do they trigger a corresponding thought about a flower? The alternative to believing that minds are different from bodies is to believe that there is only one kind of thing. dealism, discussed briefly later, says that (as far as we the thinkers can know) there are only ideas, and matter is something we imagine. The opposite of idealism is materialism, which says that only the material world exists and the mental world is a kind of a construct that (somehow) arises out of physical activity. This view would acknowledge our brains and what happens in them, but would have less to say about our minds, and even lesser about souls. Adapting this view, we still cannot escape the question of how could one reason or manipulate symbols meaningfully. Either we can ma