ng mathematical and philosophical base of logical reasoning. Here again, we witness that the weak methods for theorem proving encounter the feared adversary, CombEx, or combinatorial explosion. We look at ways to structure knowledge in an effort to connect the related pieces and make compact representations. Our study of ontology and description logic is also driven by the need for programs to communicate and exchange information by different machines across the Internet. Humans use language not only to communicate but also to represent knowledge, for example in a book. Formal reasoning and argumentation is also often done using language. We devote three chapters to dealing with various aspects of language, including methods for text processing which have gained prominence with the explosion of information available online. have been sometimes asked by students as to why teach, and write about, approaches like the conceptual dependency theory and scripts etcetera, which were popular up till the early eighties in the last century and not really pursued after that. The reason is that semantics is important, as also is pragmatics that involves the representation and reasoning with stereotypical knowledge. If a computer is to interact meaningfully with a user then it will need to access the meaning of what is being said. The specific formalism that is used is not the important thing, but the idea that the meaning of natural language sentences is expressed in a language that is used to model the concepts in the underlying domain. With increasing computational power and advances in representation and reasoning, such approaches to handle deep knowledge are bound to make a comeback. However, the use of classical mathematical logic is inadequate for reasoning about a changing world and where we have to contend with incomplete information. Mathematical logic connects true statements to other true statements. It is not quite equipped to talk about statements whose truth values