d
the first serious discussion of the feasibility of computer chess and checkers (Morrison and
Morrison,1961). Hedidnotunderstandtheexponentialcomplexityofsearchtrees,claiming the combinations involved in the Analytical Engine enormously surpassed any required,
even by the game of chess. Babbage also designed, but did not build, a special-purpose
machine for playing tic-tac-toe. The first true game-playing machine was built around 1890
by the Spanish engineer Leonardo Torresy Quevedo. Itspecialized inthe KRK (king and
rookvs.king)chessendgame,guaranteeing awinwithkingandrookfromanyposition.
The minimax algorithm is traced to a 1912 paper by Ernst Zermelo, the developer of
modernsettheory. Thepaperunfortunatelycontainedseveralerrorsanddidnotdescribemin-
imaxcorrectly. Ontheotherhand,itdidlayouttheideasofretrogradeanalysisandproposed
(but did not prove) what became known as Zermelo s theorem: that chess is determined Whitecan force awinor Black canoritisadraw; wejust don t know which. Zermelosays
thatshould weeventually know, Chesswouldofcourse losethecharacterofagameatall. A solid foundation for game theory was developed in the seminal work Theory of Games
and Economic Behavior (von Neumannand Morgenstern, 1944), whichincluded ananalysis
showingthatsomegamesrequirestrategiesthatarerandomized(orotherwiseunpredictable).
See Chapter17formoreinformation.
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 191
John Mc Carthy conceived the idea of alpha beta search in 1956, although he did not
publish it. The NS Schess program (Newell etal.,1958) used asimplified version ofalpha beta; itwasthe firstchess program todo so. Alpha beta pruning wasdescribed by Hartand
Edwards(1961)and Hartetal.(1972). Alpha betawasusedbythe Kotok Mc Carthy chess
program written by a student of John Mc Carthy (Kotok, 1962). Knuth and Moore (1975)
proved the correctness ofalpha beta and analysed its timecomplexity. Pearl(1982b) shows
alpha beta tobeasymptotically optimalamongallfixed-depthgame-treesearchalgorit