olved quite easily, whereas the search would have taken very long. FIGURE 2.31 A 25-queens solution constructed from a 5-queens solution. 3. In the rabbit leap problem, three east-bound rabbits stand in a line blocked by three west-bound rabbits. They are crossing a stream with stones placed in the east west direction in a line. There is one empty stone between them. FIGURE 2.32 Rabbits waiting to cross. Each rabbit can jump over one, but not more than that. How can they avoid getting into a deadlock? The rabbits can only move forward one step or two steps. They can jump over one rabbit if the need arises, but not more than that. Are they smart enough to cross each other without having to step into the water? Draw the state space for solving the problem, and find the solution path in the state space graph. 4. Given that you have a set of shopping tasks to be done at N locations, find a feasible order of the shopping tasks. The constraints are the different closing times of the N shops, given a closing time table. An N x N array D gives the time it takes to go between shops, where dj being the time taken from the i shop to the j shop. Assume that the time taken for the actual shopping is negligible. Hint: Augment the state representation to have time. If the time of reaching a shop is later than its closing time, try another solution. . Amogh, Ameya and their grandparents have to cross a bridge over the river within one hour to catch a train. It is raining and they have only one umbrella which can be shared by two people. Assuming that no one wants to get wet, how can they get across in an hour or less? Amogh can cross the bridge in 5 minutes, Ameya in 10, their grandmother in 20, and their grandfather in 25. Design a search algorithm to answer the question. . The AllOut game is played on a 5 by 5 board. Each square can be in two positions, ON or OFF. The initial state is some state, where at least one square is ON. The moves constitute of clicking on a particular sq