find it, but also from areas such as visual perception, where it is more tempting to suspect the influence of subsymbolic processes. However, subsymbolic models (for example, neural networks) are beginning to challenge symbolic ones at such low-level tasks. Such models are discussed in Chapter 18. Whether certain subsymbolic models conflict with the physical symbol system hypothesis is a topic still under debate (e.g., Smolensky [1988] ). And it is important to note that even the success of subsymbolic systems is not necessarily evidence against the hypothesis. It is often possible to accomplish a task in more than one way. One interesting attempt to reduce a particularly human activity, the understanding of jokes, to a process of symbol manipulation is provided in the book Mathematics and Humor [Paulos, 1980]. It is, of course, possible that the hypothesis will turn out to be only partially true. Perhaps physical symbol systems will prove able to model some aspects of human intelligence and not others. Only time and effort will tell. The importance of the physical symbol system hypothesis is twofold, It is a significant theory of the nature of human intelligence and so is of great interest to psychologists. It also forms the basis of. the belief that it is possible to build programs that can perform intelligent tasks now performed by people. Our major concern here is with the latter of these implications, although as we will soon see, the two issues are not unrelated. 1.3. WHAT IS AN AI TECHNIQUE? Artificial intelligence problems span a very broad spectrum. They appear to have very little in common except that they are hard. Are there any techniques that are appropriate for the solution of a variety of these problems? The answer to this question is yes, there are. What, then, if anything, can we say about those techniques besides the fact that they manipulate symbols? How could we tell if those techniques might be useful in solving other problems, perhaps ones not 