esent,whenitisnot). Test Bis90 effectiveatrecognizing thevirus,buthasa5 false
positive rate. The two tests use independent methods of identifying the virus. The virus is
carriedby1 ofallpeople. Saythatapersonistestedforthevirususingonlyoneofthetests,
andthattestcomesbackpositiveforcarryingthevirus. Whichtestreturningpositiveismore
indicative ofsomeonereallycarryingthevirus? Justifyyouranswermathematically.
13.14 Suppose you are given a coin that lands heads with probability x and tails with
probability 1 x. Are the outcomes of successive flips of the coin independent of each
other given that you know the value of x? Are the outcomes of successive flips of the coin
independent ofeachotherifyoudonotknowthevalueofx? Justifyyouranswer.
13.15 After your yearly checkup, the doctor has bad news and good news. The bad news
is that you tested positive for a serious disease and that the test is 99 accurate (i.e., the
probability of testing positive when you do have the disease is 0.99, as is the probability of
testingnegativewhenyoudon thavethedisease). Thegoodnewsisthatthisisararedisease,
striking only 1 in 10,000 people of your age. Why is it good news that the disease is rare?
Whatarethechances thatyouactuallyhavethedisease?
13.16 It is quite often useful to consider the effect of some specific propositions in the
context ofsomegeneral background evidence thatremainsfixed,ratherthaninthecomplete
absence of information. The following questions ask you to prove more general versions of
theproductruleand Bayes rule,withrespecttosomebackground evidencee:
a. Provetheconditionalized versionofthegeneralproduct rule:
P(X,Y e) P(X Y,e)P(Y e).
b. Provetheconditionalized versionof Bayes rulein Equation(13.13).
13.17 Showthatthestatementofconditional independence
P(X,Y Z) P(X Z)P(Y Z)
isequivalent toeachofthestatements
P(X Y,Z) P(X Z) and P(B X,Z) P(Y Z).
13.18 Supposeyouaregivenabagcontaining nunbiased coins. Youaretoldthatn 1of
these coins are normal, with heads on one side and tail