thebelief in Wet Grass,
which in turn increases the belief in Rain even more. Clearly, uncertain reasoning systems
needtokeeptrackofthepathsalongwhichevidence ispropagated.
Intercausal reasoning (orexplaining away)isalsotricky. Considerwhathappens when
wehavethetworules
Sprinkler Wet Grass and Wet Grass Rain .
Supposeweseethatthesprinklerison. Chainingforwardthroughourrules,thisincreasesthe
belief that the grass willbe wet, which in turn increases the belief that it is raining. But this
is ridiculous: the fact that the sprinkler is on explains awaythe wetgrass and should reduce
thebeliefinrain. Atruth-functional systemactsasifitalsobelieves Sprinkler Rain.
Given these difficulties, how can truth-functional systems be made useful in practice?
The answer lies in restricting the task and in carefully engineering the rule base so that un-
desirable interactions do not occur. The most famous example of a truth-functional system
CERTAINTYFACTOR
foruncertain reasoning isthe certaintyfactors model,whichwasdeveloped forthe MYCIN
medical diagnosis program and was widely used in expert systems of the late 1970s and
1980s. Almostallusesofcertainty factorsinvolved rulesetsthatwereeitherpurelydiagnos-
tic (as in MYCIN) or purely causal. Furthermore, evidence was entered only at the roots oftheruleset, andmostrulesetsweresingly connected. Heckerman(1986) hasshownthat,
Section14.7. Other Approaches to Uncertain Reasoning 549
underthesecircumstances, aminorvariationoncertainty-factor inferencewasexactlyequiv-
alentto Bayesianinferenceonpolytrees. Inothercircumstances, certaintyfactorscouldyield
disastrously incorrect degrees of belief through overcounting of evidence. As rule sets be-
camelarger, undesirable interactions betweenrulesbecamemorecommon,andpractitioners
foundthatthecertaintyfactorsofmanyotherruleshadtobe tweaked whennewruleswere
added. Forthesereasons, Bayesiannetworkshavelargelysupplanted rule-based methodsfor
uncertain reasoning.
14.7.2 Representing ignorance: Dempste