 in language and the task of disambiguation that crops us. We also look at text processing applications like information retrieval and machine translation. Chapter 17 looks at various methods of dealing with uncertainty. We begin with extending logics to handle incomplete knowledge, look at qualitative approaches to reasoning, reasoning with assumptions, reasoning with probability. Chapter 18 is the last chapter dealing with machine learning, an area that will determine how machines can acquire more knowledge by themselves. We begin with concept learning and decision trees, and follow up with well established techniques like Naive Bayes Classifier and Hidden Markov Models, and approaches to clustering. We also look at learning in Artificial Neural Networks. A word about the algorithms presented in this book. We begin by describing them in considerable detail, but later when we build variations, we make our descriptions a little bit more abstract, focusing on the principal ways the new algorithms differ from the ones described earlier. Every now and then, however, we find the need to describe an algorithm in greater detail. Even though our long term goal is to build a fully integrated intelligent system, the journey can be productive as well. During the last fifty years, Al researchers have built many useful systems that use only a few reasoning methods individually. These are systems we may not want to label as being intelligent , but they do employ some of the aspects of intelligence we have discussed. These systems include a chemist s expert assistant, a system that helps explore the earth for minerals, systems that advise a patient on whether they need to rush to a hospital or not, tutoring systems that teach children math, systems that can prove theorems, systems that can create an organizational memory, system that help plan and book your travel, systems that can ferret out useful information from the World Wide Web, systems that would recommend a movie and a r