lligent, not it. Because know that am . Ironically, grappling with the question of human identity, Ren Descartes had said cogito ergo sum (Latin for I think, therefore am originally asserted by him in French Je pense donc je suis ). Descartes felt that the very fact that he was thinking (the statement I am, exist , or for that matter any other thought) was enough to establish his existence, even if there were a deceiver of supreme power and cunning who is deliberately and constantly deceiving him. Much earlier, Plato had said ... so that whenever we perceive, we are conscious that we perceive, and whenever we think, we are conscious that we think, and to be conscious that we are perceiving or thinking is to be conscious that we exist... 11. In recent times, it seems that when Warren McCulloch, a pioneer in neural models, was embarking upon his education at the age of 19, he was asked by the Quaker philosopher Rufus Jones on what he wanted to do. McCulloch replied I have no idea; but there is one question would like to answer: What is a number that a man may know it, and a man, that he may know a number? At which his elderly mentor smiled and said Friend, thee will be busy as long as thee lives. (McCulloch, 1960). There have been many more people who have grappled with the notion of the self and consciousness. The interested reader is referred to (Hofstadter and Dennett, 1981) and (Hofstadter, 2007) for some very insightful explorations. So, while for humans we use the process of thinking as a means of arriving at the knowledge of our existence, for computers we adopt the contrapositive. They cannot think because they have no knowledge of their existence. know that am playing chess. want to win. know that want to win... and so on. The philosophical objection to artificial intelligence is that since computers are not capable of self awareness, being just programmed machines, they cannot be called intelligent. One suspects that such objections are made in anticipation 