nning with STRIPS operators will achieve the goal on(T, O), on(O, P) . You may choose any order for the subgoals. What is the plan found? Given the initial state on(A, B), on(B, D), onTable(D), on(C, E), onTable(E), on(G, F), ontable(F), ontable(H), AE, clear(A), clear(C), clear(G), clear(H) show how partial order planning with STRIPS operators will achieve the goal on(C, B), on(B, A) . You may choose any order where a choice has to be made. What is the plan found? . Modify the blocks world domain so that one can stack two blocks on any given block. For example, it should be possible to say on(A, D), on(B, D) as part of a state description. How will the preconditions for the Stack operator change? Design a planning domain for playing the computer game Freecell or Solitaire available on many computers. Enumerate the different kinds of flaws that a partial plan may have in plan space planning. Also, enumerate the ways of dealing with them. . Implement Goal Stack Planning and Plan Space Planning algorithms for the STRIPS domain. Test your algorithms for domains used in the International Planning Competitions (available on the internet). Given the initial state on(A, B), onTable(B), on(C, D), onTable(D), AE, clear(A), clear(C) , show how plan space planning with STRIPS operators will achieve the goal on(A, D), on(C, B) . Draw the plan structure that the algorithm returns at termination. The Wumpus world is a small artificial world with a strong legacy in literature that was suggested by Michael Genesereth as a testbed for intelligent systems, and used as an example in many games and the well known book by Russel and Norvig (2009). In one simple version, the task is for an agent to find as much gold as possible in a two-dimensional grid. Each time gold is collected, the agent s score goes up by some large amount (say 1000). The agent can move to neighbouring squares horizontally and vertically. This can be done by a combination of move and turn. In addition, the agent ha