 Such a proof is called a proof by refutation which, if successful. yields the empty clause denoted by 11.2 Resolution with factoring is eu,np/eu' in the sense that it will alssays generate the empty clause front set of unsatisfiable clauses. Resolution is very simple Given two clauses ( and C, with no variables in common, if there is a literal I I in C I which is a complement of a literal l in C2. both I I and l are deleted and a disjuncted C is formed from the remaining reduced clauses. The new clause C is called the resolvent of C1 and C,. Resolution is the process of generating these resolvents from a set of clauses. For example. to resolve the two clauses ( P V Q) and IQ VP) 'The empty clause I ) isaiwas false since no inierprciation can. saiisfy it It is denved 11001 combining contradictory clauses such as P and P, Sec. 4.7 The Resolution Principle 67 we write PVQ.QVR RVR Several types of resolution are possible depending on the number and types of parents. We define a few of these types below. Binary resolution. Two clauses having complementary literals are combined as disjuncts to produce a single clause after deleting the complementary literals. For example. the binary resolvent of P(x,c,) VQ(x) and Q(b) V R(x) is just P(b,a) V R(b). The substitution {b/x} was made in the two parent clauses to produce the complementary literals Q(b) and -Q(b) which were then deleted from the disjunction of the two parent clauses. Unit resulting (UR) resolution. A number of clauses are resolved simultaneously to produce a unit clause. All except one of the clauses are unit clauses, and that one clause has exactly one more literal than the total number of unit clauses. For example, resolving the set FMARRIED(x,y) V MOTHER(x,z) V FATHER(y.z), MARRIED(sue,joe), FATHERjoe,bt I)} where the substitution 0 = {sue/x, joe/v, bill!-) is used, results in the Unit clause MOTHER(sue,biil). Linear resolution. When each resolved clause C, is a parent to the clause C,. I (i = I. 2..... n - 