e those by Knuth (1973)
and Aho, Hopcroft, and Ullman (1974); more recent contributions are by Tarjan (1983) and
Cormen, Leiserson, and Rivest (1990). These books place an emphasis on designing and
analyzing algorithms to solve tractable problems. For the theory of NP-completeness and
other forms of intractability, see Garey and Johnson (1979) or Papadimitriou (1994). Good
textsonprobability include Chung(1979), Ross(1988), and Bertsekasand Tsitsiklis (2008).
B
NOTES ON LANGUAGES
AND ALGORITHMS
B.1 DEFINING LANGUAGES WITH BACKUS NAUR FORM (BNF)
In this book, we define several languages, including the languages of propositional logic
(page 243), first-order logic (page 293), and a subset of English (page 899). A formal lan-
guageisdefinedasasetofstringswhereeachstringisasequenceofsymbols. Thelanguages
weare interested inconsist of aninfinite set of strings, soweneed a concise way tocharac-
terizetheset. Wedothatwithagrammar. Theparticulartypeofgrammarweuseiscalleda
CONTEXT-FREE context-freegrammar,becauseeachexpressionhasthesameforminanycontext. Wewrite
GRAMMAR
BACKUS NAUR ourgrammarsinaformalism called Backus Naurform(BNF).Therearefourcomponents
FORM(BNF)
toa BN Fgrammar: Asetofterminalsymbols. Thesearethesymbolsorwordsthatmakeupthestringsof
TERMINALSYMBOL
thelanguage. Theycouldbeletters(A,B,C,...)orwords(a,aardvark,abacus,...),
orwhateversymbolsareappropriate forthedomain.
NONTERMINAL A set of nonterminal symbols that categorize subphrases of the language. Forexam-
SYMBOL
ple, the nonterminal symbol Noun Phrase in English denotes an infinite set of strings
including you and thebigslobberydog. A start symbol, which is the nonterminal symbol that denotes the complete set of
STARTSYMBOL
strings of the language. In English, this is Sentence; forarithmetic, it might be Expr,
andforprogramming languages itis Program. A set of rewrite rules, of the form LHS RHS, where LHS is a nonterminal
symboland RHS isasequence ofzero ormoresymbols. These canbeeitherterminal
ornontermi