ands in natural language typed into its console, and generated and monitored its plans. In 2004, Shakey was inducted into CMU s Robotic Hall of Fame along with Honda s AS MO; Astroboy, the Japanese animation of a robot with a soul; C3PO, a character from the Star Wars series; and Robby the Robot from MGM's Forbidden Planet. In the preceding year, the Mars Pathfinder Sojourner Rover, Unimate, R2-D2, and HAL 9000 were the first set of robots to be inducted. Sony s robotic dog, AIBO, joined them in 2006, along with the industrial robotic arm, SCARA. The entries from science fiction were Maria of Metropolis (1927), David of Artificial Intelligence: Al (2001), and Gort of The Day The Earth Stood Still (1951). Lego s robotic kit MINDSTORMS, the agile Hopper, and the autonomous vehicle NavLab 5 joined the elite group in 2008, along with Lt. Cmdr. Data from Star Trek: The Next Generation. Research in robotics is thriving, commercial development has become feasible, and we will soon expect robotic swarms to carry out search and rescue operations; and as we have observed elsewhere in this chapter, the possibility of robotic companions is no longer considered outlandish. The first planning system STRIPS (Stanford Research Institute Planning System) was developed around the same time, 1971, by Richard Fikes and Nils Nilsson. So far, the work in planning had adopted a theorem proving approach. Planning is concerned with actions and change, and an important problem was to keep track of what is not changing. This was the well known Frame Problem described by John McCarthy and Patrick Hayes in 1969. The STRIPS program sidestepped the problem by doing away with time altogether in its representation, and only keeping the given state, making only those modifications that were the effects of actions. It was only later in the last decade of the twentieth century, that time made an appearance again in planning representations, as bigger and faster machines arrived, and other methods emer