,intherealworld,Bucharestisthecapitalof Romania,
but for an agent that did not know that, other possible worlds are accessible, including ones
wherethecapital of Romaniais Sibiuor Sofia. Presumably aworldwhere 2 2 5would
notbeaccessible toanyagent.
Ingeneral, a knowledge atom K P is true in world w if and only if P istrue in every
A
worldaccessible from w. Thetruthofmorecomplexsentences isderivedbyrecursive appli-
cation ofthis rule and the normal rules offirst-order logic. Thatmeans that modal logic can
be used to reason about nested knowledge sentences: what one agent knows about another
agent s knowledge. For example, we can say that, even though Lois doesn t know whether
Superman ssecretidentityis Clark Kent,shedoesknowthat Clarkknows:
K K Identity(Superman,Clark) K Identity(Superman,Clark) Lois Clark Clark
Figure12.4showssomepossibleworldsforthisdomain,withaccessibility relationsfor Lois
and Superman.
Inthe TOP-LEFT diagram,itiscommonknowledgethat Supermanknowshisowniden-
tity, and neither henor Loishasseen the weatherreport. Soinw theworlds w and w are
0 0 2
accessible to Superman;mayberainispredicted, maybenot. For Loisallfourworldsareac-
cessiblefromeachother;shedoesn tknowanythingaboutthereportorif Clarkis Superman.
Butshedoesknowthat Superman knowswhetherheis Clark, because ineveryworldthatis
accessible to Lois, either Superman knows I, orhe knows I. Loisdoes not know which is
thecase,buteitherwaysheknows Supermanknows.
In the TOP-RIGHT diagram it is common knowledge that Lois has seen the weather
report. So in w she knows rain is predicted and in w she knows rain is not predicted.
4 6
452 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
w: I,R w: I,R w: I,R w: I,R
0 1 4 5
w: I, R w: I, R w: I, R w: I, R
2 3 6 7
(a) (b)
w: I,R w: I,R
4 5
w: I,R w: I,R
0 1
w: I, R w: I, R
2 3
w: I, R w: I, R
6 7
(c)
Figure 12.4 Possible worlds with accessibility relations KSuperman (solid arrows) and
KLois (dottedarrows). Theproposition Rmeans theweatherreportfortomorrowisrain and I me