nferences in some repre ormal Logic ogic is the machinery for realizing such reasoning. It is essentially a symbol manipulation machine atements taken to be true, the machinery determines what other sentences can be argued to be ature or validity of an argument (inference) depends only on the form of the argument. The valid t does not depend upon the content, or what is being said in the arguments. Consider the two al e first of which is the famous Socratic argument put forth by Aristotle (384 Bc-322 Bc). All men are mortal Socrates is a man Socrates is mortal All soccer stars are rich Steven is a soccer star Steven is rich orm of both the arguments is identical, and both arguments are valid. Whether the conclusior ts are valid (true) or not, depends upon the premises in the argument. Given a valid argument , the conclusions are necessarily true. But if even one of the premises is not true it is not necessan In be true. For example if the first statement in the second argument (All soccer stars are rich) we in it could be possible that the conclusion (Steven is rich) is false. If it is not the case that all soccer Steven could well be one of those is who is not. At the same time it is not necessary for the premi: he conclusion to be true. Which means that the conclusion (Steven is rich) could still be true ev (All Soccer stars are rich) is false. The fact that the premise is false does not mean that no soccer st ufficient if the premises are true for the conclusion to be true. It is not necessary for the premises t inclusion to be true. Entailment ne way all humans have intrinsic curiosity, a desire to know the truth about something or the other. T e rely upon our senses. Another source is logic?. In logic one is usually interested in dealing ts. Which meansnthataiven a collection of true statements (premises), one is interested in know tements are logically entailed (necessarily made true) by the premises. Figure 12.1 below gives as ome premises and the sentences e