owledge and support reasoning 9.2.1. Frames as Sets and Instances The Set theory provides a good basis for understanding frame systems. Although not all frame systems are defined this way, we do so here. In this view, each frame represents either a class (a set) or an instance (an element of a class). To see how this works, consider the frame system shown in Fig. 9.5, which is a slightly modified form of the network we showed in Fig. 9.5. In this example, the frames Person, Adult-Male, MLBaseball-Player (corresponding to major league baseball players), Pitcher, and ML-Baseball-Team (for major league baseball team) are all classes. The frames Pee-Wee-Reese and Brooklyn-Dodgers are instances. The isa relation that we have been using without a precise definition is in fact the subset relation. The set of adult males is a subset of the set of people. The set of major league baseball players is a subset of the set of adult males, and so forth. Our instance telation corresponds to the relation element-of. Pee Wee Reese is an element of the set of fielders. Thus he is also an element of all of the supersets of fielders, including major league baseball players and people. The transitivity of isa that we have taken for granted in our description of property inheritance follows directly from the transitivity of the subset relation. Both the isa and instance relations have inverse attributes, which we call subclasses and all-instances. We do not bother to write them explicitly in our examples unless we need to refer to them. We assume that the frame system maintains them automatically, either explicitly or by computing them if necessary. Because a class represents a set, there are two kinds of attributes that can be associated with it. There are attributes about the set itself, and there are attributes that are to be inherited by each element of the set. We indicate the difference between these two by prefixing the latter with an asterisk (*). For example, consider the class M