ks [1972; 1975a; 1975b] in his preference semantics, which relies on the notion that requirements, such as the one described above for an object that is a LOCATION, are rarely hard-and-fast demands. Rather, they can best be described as preferences. For example, we might say that verbs such as hate prefer a subject that is animate. Thus we have no difficulty in understanding the sentence Pop hates the cold. as describing the feelings of a man and not those of soft drinks. But now consider the sentence My Jawn hates the cold. Now, there is no animate subject available, and so the metaphorical use of lawn acting as an animate object should be accepted. Unfortunately, to solve the lexical disambiguation problem completely, it becomes necessary-to introduce more and more finely grained semantic markers. For example, to interpret the sentence about Susan s diamond correctly, we must mark one sense of diamond as SHIMMERABLE, while the other two are marked NONSHIMMERABLE. As the number of such markers grows, the size of the lexicon becomes unmanageable. In addition, each new entry into the lexicon may require that a new marker be added to each of the existing entries. The breakdown of the semantic marker approach when the number of words and word senses becomes large has led to the development of other ways in which correct senses can be chosen. We return to this issue in Section 15.3.4. Sentence-Level Processing Several approaches to the problem of creating a semantic representation of a sentence have been developed, including the following: Semantic grammars, which combine syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic knowledge into a single set of rules in the form of a grammar. The result of parsing with such a grammar is a semantic, rather than just a syntactic, description of a sentence. e Case grammars, in which the structure that is built by the parser contains some semantic information, although further interpretation may also be necessary. Conceptual parsing, in which synta