enextsectioncontainsamoresubstantialexample(electroniccircuits)
and Chapter12coverseverything intheuniverse.
8.3.1 Assertions andqueries infirst-order logic
Sentencesareaddedtoaknowledgebaseusing TELL,exactlyasinpropositional logic. Such
sentences are called assertions. Forexample, wecan assert that John is aking, Richard is a
ASSERTION
person, andallkingsarepersons:
TELL(KB, King(John)).
TELL(KB, Person(Richard)).
TELL(KB, x King(x) Person(x)).
Wecanaskquestions oftheknowledgebaseusing ASK. Forexample,
ASK(KB, King(John))
QUERY
returnstrue. Questionsaskedwith AS Karecalledqueriesorgoals. Generallyspeaking,any
query thatislogically entailed bytheknowledge baseshould beanswered affirmatively. For
GOAL
example,giventhetwopreceding assertions, thequery
ASK(KB, Person(John))
shouldalsoreturn true. Wecanaskquantifiedqueries, suchas
ASK(KB, x Person(x)).
The answer is true, but this is perhaps not as helpful as we would like. It is rather like
answering Can you tell me the time? with Yes. If we want to know what value of x
makesthesentence true,wewillneedadifferentfunction, ASKVARS,whichwecallwith
ASKVARS(KB,Person(x))
andwhichyieldsastream ofanswers. Inthiscasetherewillbetwoanswers: x John and
SUBSTITUTION x Richard . Suchanansweriscalledasubstitutionorbindinglist. ASKVARS isusually
reserved forknowledge bases consisting solely of Horn clauses, because in such knowledge
BINDINGLIST
bases every way of making the query true will bind the variables to specific values. That is
notthecasewithfirst-orderlogic; if KB hasbeentold King(John) King(Richard),then
thereisnobinding toxforthequery x King(x),eventhoughthequeryistrue.
8.3.2 The kinshipdomain
Thefirstexampleweconsideristhedomainoffamilyrelationships, orkinship. Thisdomain
includes facts such as Elizabeth is the mother of Charles and Charles is the father of
William andrulessuchas One sgrandmotheristhemotherofone sparent. Clearly,theobjectsinourdomainarepeople. Wehavetwounarypredicates, Male and
Female. Kinship relations p