 the agents described in Chapters 4 and 7 that
maintain a belief state reflecting the history of percepts to date. The primary difference is
that the decision-theoretic agent s belief state represents not just the possibilities for world
states but also their probabilities. Given the belief state, the agent can make probabilistic
predictions ofactionoutcomesandhenceselecttheactionwithhighestexpectedutility. This
chapterandthenextconcentrateonthetaskofrepresenting andcomputingwithprobabilistic
information ingeneral. Chapter 15 deals with methods forthe specific tasks of representing
and updating the belief state over time and predicting the environment. Chapter 16 covers
utility theory in more depth, and Chapter 17 develops algorithms for planning sequences of
actionsinuncertain environments.
13.2 BASIC PROBABILITY NOTATION
For our agent to represent and use probabilistic information, we need a formal language.
The language of probability theory has traditionally been informal, written by human math-
ematicians to other human mathematicians. Appendix Aincludes astandard introduction to
elementary probability theory; here, wetake anapproach moresuited totheneeds of AIand
moreconsistent withtheconcepts offormallogic.
484 Chapter 13. Quantifying Uncertainty
function DT-AGENT(percept)returnsanaction
persistent: belief state,probabilisticbeliefsaboutthecurrentstateoftheworld
action,theagent saction
updatebelief state basedonaction andpercept
calculateoutcomeprobabilitiesforactions,
givenactiondescriptionsandcurrentbelief state
selectaction withhighestexpectedutility
givenprobabilitiesofoutcomesandutilityinformation
returnaction
Figure13.1 Adecision-theoreticagentthatselectsrationalactions.
13.2.1 Whatprobabilities areabout
Like logical assertions, probabilistic assertions are about possible worlds. Whereas logical
assertions saywhichpossible worldsarestrictly ruled out (allthoseinwhichtheassertion is
false), probabilistic assertions talkabouthowprobable thevariousworldsar