 and bridge the divide between logic and language and explore how concepts can be represented in logic. Given that our knowledge representation is about the world we are concerned with, and that the world is structured, it is only to be expected that the representation would start to mirror the structure in the world. We introduce abstractions and generalizations. We explore such structured representations, in which fact do not exist merely as individual statements but are woven together in schemas or schematas in Chapter 14. Episodic knowledge accrues from our accumulated experience, but is not confined to that. It may evolve into other forms of knowledge; by processes we now call data mining and knowledge discovery. The semantic notion that apples are sweet may in fact be rooted in the episodic memory of having eaten an apple in the past and experienced the sweet taste. We constantly endeavour to generalize from instances of experiences and make compact rules and associations that are useful for us. For example, traditional wisdom says that it is not a good idea to go for a swim after a sumptuous lunch. Often, knowledge gets encapsulated in such rules, and may even disassociate from the original experience, leading us to wonder about the etymology of phrases like to bury the hatchet or kick the bucket . An ironsmith may associate a particular colour of the heated metal with a particular action, and if he has deeper knowledge, then with a particular property of the metal. Machine learning has always been a fascination for computer scientists since the day when Samuel s checkers program learnt to play better and better and eventually beat him. We look at some of the techniques developed in machine learning in Chapter 18. Over a period of time, we evolve such generalized experiences into action schemas or procedural rules that we use in our everyday problem solving. For example, a farmer may say that the correct time to sow his crop is after the first rains in the mo