3.5.1 Applying Bayes rule: The simplecase
On the surface, Bayes rule does not seem very useful. It allows us to compute the single
term P(b a) in terms of three terms: P(a b), P(b), and P(a). That seems like two steps
backwards, but Bayes rule is useful in practice because there are many cases where we do
have good probability estimates for these three numbers and need to compute the fourth.
Often, we perceive as evidence the effect of some unknown cause and we would like to
determinethatcause. Inthatcase,Bayes rulebecomes
P(effect cause)P(cause)
P(cause effect) .
P(effect)
The conditional probability P(effect cause) quantifies the relationship in the causal direc-
CAUSAL
tion, whereas P(cause effect)describes the diagnostic direction. In atask such as medical
DIAGNOSTIC
diagnosis, weoften have conditional probabilities on causal relationships (that is, the doctor
knows P(symptoms disease))andwanttoderiveadiagnosis, P(disease symptoms). For
example, a doctor knows that the disease meningitis causes the patient to have a stiff neck,
say, 70 of the time. The doctor also knows some unconditional facts: the prior probabil-
ity that a patient has meningitis is 1 50,000, and the prior probability that any patient has a
stiff neck is 1 . Letting s be the proposition that the patient has a stiff neck and m be the
proposition thatthepatienthasmeningitis, wehave
P(s m) 0.7
P(m) 1 50000
P(s) 0.01
P(s m)P(m) 0.7 1 50000
P(m s) 0.0014. (13.14)
P(s) 0.01
Thatis,weexpectlessthan1in700patientswithastiffnecktohavemeningitis. Noticethat
even though a stiff neck is quite strongly indicated by meningitis (with probability 0.7), the
probabilityofmeningitisinthepatientremainssmall. Thisisbecausethepriorprobabilityof
stiffnecksismuchhigherthanthatofmeningitis.
Section13.3illustratedaprocessbywhichonecanavoidassessingthepriorprobability
of the evidence (here, P(s)) by instead computing a posterior probability for each value of
Section13.5. Bayes Ruleand Its Use 497
thequeryvariable(here, m