ecenteredonthetrunk,asshownin Figure15.12(a).
Areasonablemodelofthebird,ontheotherhand,wouldpredictevasiveactiontoonesideor
the other, asshown in Figure 15.12(b). Sucha model is highly nonlinear, because the bird s
decision variessharply depending onitsprecise locationrelativetothetrunk.
To handle examples like these, we clearly need a more expressive language for repre-
senting thebehaviorofthesystem being modeled. Withinthe control theorycommunity, for
which problems such asevasive maneuvering by aircraft raise the same kinds of difficulties,
SWITCHINGKALMAN the standard solution isthe switching Kalmanfilter. Inthis approach, multiple Kalman fil-
FILTER
590 Chapter 15. Probabilistic Reasoning over Time
(a) (b)
Figure15.12 Abirdflyingtowardatree(topviews). (a)AKalmanfilterwillpredictthe
location of the bird using a single Gaussian centered on the obstacle. (b) A more realistic
modelallowsforthebird sevasiveaction,predictingthatitwillflytoonesideortheother.
tersruninparallel, eachusingadifferentmodelofthesystem forexample,oneforstraight
flight, one forsharp left turns, and one for sharp right turns. A weighted sum of predictions
is used, where the weight depends on how well each filter fits the current data. We will see
in the next section that this is simply a special case of the general dynamic Bayesian net-
work model, obtained by adding a discrete maneuver state variable to the network shown
in Figure15.9. Switching Kalmanfiltersarediscussed furtherin Exercise15.10.
15.5 DYNAMIC BAYESIAN NETWORKS
DYNAMICBAYESIAN A dynamic Bayesian network, or DBN, is a Bayesian network that represents a temporal
NETWORK
probability model of the kind described in Section 15.1. We have already seen examples of
DB Ns: theumbrellanetworkin Figure15.2andthe Kalmanfilternetworkin Figure15.9. In
general,eachsliceofa DB Ncanhaveanynumberofstatevariables X andevidencevariables
t
E . For simplicity, we assume that the variables and their links are exactly replicated from
t
slice toslice a