st may obtain a pilots license, infer that such a person can obtain a pilots license. 5.5 Show that a Horn clause data base that is consistent is consistent' under the CWA assumption. Give an example of a simple Horn clause CWA data base to illustrate consistency. 5.6 For the following database facts, write a completion formula that states that Bill is the only person that lives in Dallas. LIVESIN(bj Il4a IIas) LIVESIN(joe,rjenver) LIVESIN(sue,phoenix) OWNS(bilt,computer) STUDENT(sue) 5.7 Determine whether the following modal statements have accessibility relations that are reflexive, transitive, or symmetric: (a) Bill Brown is alive in the current world. (b) In the current world and in all worlds in the future of the current world, if Jim Jones is dead in that world, then he will be dead in all worlds in the future of that world. (c) In the current world or in some world in the future of the current world, John Jones is dead. 5.8 Write modal propositional statements for the following using the operators L and M as described in Section 5.4. (a) It is necessarily true that the moon is made of green cheese or it is not made of green cheese. (b) It is possible that if Kennedy were born in Spain Kennedy would speak Spanish. (C) It is necessarily true that if n is divisible by 4 then n is divisible by 2. 5.9 Show that the dilation of the fuzzy set A CON(B) is the fuzzy set 8. 5.10 Give three examples of infereneing with English statements using fuzzy modus ponens (see the example in Section 5.6 under Reasoning with Fuzzy Logic). 5.11 Draw a pictorial definition for the linguistic variable TALL (similar to the variable AGE of Figure .5.8) giving your own subjective values for TALL variables and their values. 5.12 Define a reasonable, real valued fuzzy function . r the linguistic variable SHORT (see the functioq for UId(X)). 12 The previous chapter considered methods of representation which extend the expressiveness of classical logic and permit certain types of nonmonoton