f. This is similar to what one would represent such statements with logics of knowledge and belief. act 2 f N The instrumental case. ACTS may have instrumental ACTS. For example, He sent her the message by writing it on a piece of paper and throwing it to her . act od PPs can mark conceptualizations, and in turn may be described by them. For example, The ground where the fight between the boys took place , or The girl in the field full of daffodils . aS SS 9.k 2 onaeptualizations can have a time marker or a location marker. n the sentence Harry ate the pear in the park the past tense. wi ld be, indicated by the marker P and the park would mark the event. A set of symbols could represent different conceptual tenses, for example future (f), transition (t), continuing (k), interrogative (?), negative ( ), potential (c), present (no marker). LOC 10. Conceptualizations can result in state change events. For example, They converted the grapes into juice by dancing upon them . Note that the arrow points from the effect to the cause, to signify that the state change is dependent upon the action event. fr - - . Conceptualizations can serve as a reason for other conceptualizations. For example, Janet opened the door for David and he walked into the movie hall , or The mice bit the ropes enabling the fox to escape from the trap . te SS 12. A state or state change may enable a conceptualization. Very often people do things because of a given state or a changing state. For example, He was angry and kicked his foot against the wheel , or Since it started to rain he ran out to pick up the laundry . ts oh 13. A PP can describe another PP. For example Barack Obama is the President or The doctor was the thief . PP PP 14. ACTS can be further described by Action aiders. He was walking very fast . ACT AA 15. Attributive dependency. The single arrow is used when something is an attribute of something else. The following illustrates this with an example. Rashmi ate the huge hot dog while 