ls with employing pattern recognition and other techniques to process still and moving images to identify objects and extract other kinds of information, and is often preceded by image processing which deals with the acquisition and preprocessing of image data. Our sense of hearing gives us another window to the world. Sound can reach us when light often cannot, behind closed doors, deep in a forest, and even when we are sleeping. Humans have developed sound as the principal medium of conveying symbols, in the form of language. The written word came later. The disciplines of speech recognition and natural language understanding are concerned with the transduction of speech into language, and language into concepts respectively. Both may be concerned with dealing with patterns at different levels. Not shown in the figure is the faculty of creation and appreciation of music, which has been another manifestation of making sense of sounds. The sense of touch too becomes important when we talk of building robots. A tactile sensor would allow a metal being to shake a human hand gently, and could also be used to sense the surroundings in some situations. The topics on the right are concerned with acting in the world. On the language side, we have natural language generation and speech synthesis that express concepts in natural language and convert the words in the language into sounds respectively. We can also have music generation and along with computer graphics and animation, one can imagine a system that will generate a soothing tale at bedtime for our children, help us navigate through a new town, describe incidents from far flung planets, or give us a glimpse of tomorrow's weather in our neighbourhood. 7 ae Smell Netural language understanding xy Speech synthesis Speech recognitigg Natural language generation Image processing Qualitative reasoning Fuzzy sets X Logic Graphics Computer vigion Knowledge representation Beil Semantics Ontology Neural networfs Machine leam