49
Perceived object
Left image Right image
Right Left
Disparity
(a) (b)
Figure 24.16 Translating a camera parallel to the image plane causes image features to
move in the camera plane. The disparity in positions that results is a cue to depth. If we
superimposeleftandrightimage,asin(b),weseethedisparity.
24.4.2 Binocularstereopsis
Most vertebrates have two eyes. This is useful for redundancy in case of a lost eye, but it
helps in other ways too. Most prey have eyes on the side of the head to enable a widerfield
BINOCULAR of vision. Predators have the eyes in the front, enabling them to use binocular stereopsis.
STEREOPSIS
Theidea issimilartomotion parallax, except thatinstead ofusing images overtime, weuse
two (or more) images separated in space. Because a given feature in the scene will be in a
different place relative to the z-axis of each image plane, if we superpose the two images,
there willbeadisparity inthe location oftheimage feature inthe twoimages. Youcan see
DISPARITY
this in Figure 24.16, where the nearest point of the pyramid is shifted to the left in the right
imageandtotherightintheleftimage.
Note that to measure disparity we need to solve the correspondence problem, that is,
determine for a point in the left image, the point in the right image that results from the
projection of the same scene point. This is analogous to what one has to do in measuring
optical flow, and the most simple-minded approaches are somewhat similar and based on
comparingblocksofpixelsaroundcorrespondingpointsusingthesumofsquareddifferences.
Inpractice,weusemuchmoresophisticatedalgorithms,whichexploitadditionalconstraints.
Assuming that we can measure disparity, how does this yield information about depth
in the scene? We will need to work out the geometrical relationship between disparity and
depth. First, wewill consider the case when both the eyes (or cameras) are looking forward
withtheiropticalaxesparallel. Therelationship oftherightcameratotheleftcameraisthen
just a dis