

=== START OF a-first-course-in-artificial-intelligence-deepak-khemani-clean.txt ===

RTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE Deepak Khemani A First Course in Artificial Intelligence About the Author Deepak Khemani is Professor at Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Madras. He completed his B.Tech. (1980) in Mechanical Engineering, and M.Tech. (1983) and PhD. (1989) in Computer Science from IIT Bombay, and has been with IIT Madras since then. In between, he spent a year at Tata Research Development and Design Centre, Pune, and another at the youngest IIT at Mandi. He has had shorter stays at several computing departments in Europe. Prof. Khemani s long-term goals are to build articulate problem solving systems using Al that can interact with human beings. His research interests include Memory Based Reasoning, Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, Planning and Constraint Satisfaction, Qualitative Reasoning and Natural Language Processing. A First Course in Artificial Intelligence Deepak Khemani Department of Computer Science and Engineering Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras Chennai Education McGraw Hill Education (India) Private Limited NEW DELHI McGraw Hill Education Offices New Delhi New York St Louis San Francisco Auckland Bogota Caracas Kuala Lumpur Lisbon London Madrid Mexico City Milan Montreal San Juan Santiago Singapore Sydney Tokyo Toronto SS McGraw Hill Education (India) Private Limited Published by McGraw Hill Education (India) Private Limited P-24, Green Park Extension, New Delhi 110 016 Sales Territories: India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka A First Course in Artificial Intelligence Copyright 2013, by Deepak Khemani No part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise or stored in a database or retrieval system without the prior written permission of the publishers. The program listings (if any) may be entered, stored and exe