ation are essential components of intelligent behavior. They provide the ability toeffectively interact with our environment. Humans perceive and communicate through their five basic senses of sight, hearing, touch. nwfl. and taste, and (heir ability to generate meaningful utterances. Two.of the senses, sight and hearing are especially complex and require c ncious inferencing. Developing programs that understand natural language and that comprehend visual scenes are two of the most difficult tasks facing Al researchers. Developing programs that understand a natural language is a difficult problem. Natural languages are large. They Contain an infinity of different sentences. No matter how many sentences a person has heard or seen, new ones can always be produced. Also, there is much ambiguity in a natural language. Many words have several meanings such as can, bear, fly, and orange, and sentences can.have different meanings in different contexts This makes the creation of programs that." understand" a natural language, one of the most challenging tasks in Al. It requires that a program transform sentences occurring as part of a dialog into data strictures which convey the intended meaning of the sentences to a reasoning program. In general, this means that the reasoning program must know a lot about the structure of the language, the possible semantics, the beliefs and goals of the user, and a great deal of general world knowledge. 227 228 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 12.1 INTRODUCTION Developing programs to understand natural language is important in Al because a natural form of communication with systems is essential for user acceptance. Furthermore, one of the most critical tests for intelligent behavior is the ability to communicate effectively. Indeed, this was the purpose of the test proposed by Alan Turing (see Chapter 2). Al programs must be able to communicate with their human counterparts in a natural way, and natural language is one of the most imp