ainty
results established in a famous correspondence between Blaise Pascal and Pierre de Fermat
in1654. Aswithprobabilityitself,theresultswereinitiallymotivatedbygamblingproblems
(see Exercise 13.9). The first published textbook on probability was De Ratiociniis in Ludo
Aleae (Huygens, 1657). The laziness and ignorance view of uncertainty was described
by John Arbuthnot in the preface of his translation of Huygens (Arbuthnot, 1692): It is
impossiblefora Die,withsuchdetermin dforceanddirection,nottofallonsuchdetermin d
side, only I don t know the force and direction which makes it fall on such determin d side,
andtherefore Icallit Chance,whichisnothing butthewantofart... Laplace(1816) gaveanexceptionally accurate andmodernoverview ofprobability; he
was the first to use the example take two urns, A and B,the first containing fourwhite and
twoblackballs,... The Rev.Thomas Bayes(1702 1761) introduced theruleforreasoning
about conditional probabilities that was named after him (Bayes, 1763). Bayes only con-
sidered the case of uniform priors; it was Laplace who independently developed the general
case. Kolmogorov (1950, firstpublished in Germanin1933) presented probability theory in
a rigorously axiomatic framework for the first time. Re nyi (1970) later gave an axiomatic
presentation thattookconditional probability, ratherthanabsolute probability, asprimitive.
Pascalusedprobabilityinwaysthatrequiredboththeobjectiveinterpretation,asaprop-
erty ofthe world based onsymmetry orrelative frequency, and the subjective interpretation,
basedondegreeofbelief theformerinhisanalysesofprobabilitiesingamesofchance,the
latter in the famous Pascal s wager argument about the possible existence of God. How-
ever, Pascal did not clearly realize the distinction between these two interpretations. The
distinction wasfirstdrawnclearlyby James Bernoulli(1654 1705).
Leibnizintroduced the classical notion ofprobability asaproportion ofenumerated,
equally probable cases,whichwasalsousedby Bernoul