n determining the truthfulness or falsehood of formulas when a particular interpretation is given to its propositions An interpretation for a sentence or group of sentences is an assignment of a truth value to each propositional ssmbol. As an example, consider the statement P & :Q. One interpretation I assign" true to P and false to Q. A different interpretation (I.) assigns true to P and true to Q. Clearly. there are four distinct interpretations for this sentence. Once an interpretation has been given to ;I its truth value can he determined. This is done by repeated application of semantic rules to larger and larger parts of the statement until a single truth value is determined. The semantic rules are summarizd in Table 4.1 where I. and I denote any true stalenlenis. .1. andf' denote any false statements, and a is any statement. TABLE 4.1 SEMANTIC RULES FOR STATEMENTS Rule True Fitnumber siazemcfli% hhiein Cfli N I. T F 2. '1 'I 3. r&t' 5. ,Vi fyi 6. 7. 9. We can now find the meaning of any statement given an interpretation I for the statement. For example. let I assign true no P. false to Q and false no R in the statement ((P & 0( -. RI V 0 Application of rule 2 then gives Q as true, rule 3 gives (P & 'Q) as true, rule 6 gives (P & Q),- R as false, and rule 5 gives the statement value as false. Properties of Statements Satisfiable. A statement is satisfiable if there is some interpretation for which it is true. 52 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 Contradiction. A sentence is contradictory (unsatisfiable) if there is no interpretation for which it is true. Valid. A sentence is valid if it is true for every interpretation. Valid sentences are also called tautologies. Equivalence. Two sentences are equivalent if they have the same truth value under every interpretation Logical consequences. A sentence is a logical consequence of another if it is satisfied by all interpretations which satisfy the first. More generally, it is a logical consequence of other Statemen