rounded by more than three living cells, it dies of overcrowding; if less than two of its neighbors is alive, it dies of loneliness. Ifa cell is dead, it becomes living only if it is surrounded by exactly three living celis. Otherwise, it remains dead. For example: an en eee TT o O Le} o O Te cell becomes dead [ a cell stays living | 0] 0 cell stays dead cell becomes living 4 (a) Create input-output pairs for every possible configuration of a cell and its eight neighbors. There will be 512 (2 ) different input vectors. Associated with each input vector will be one output bit: 0 if the next state of the cell is dead, 1 if living. Use the rules above to compute the proper output input vector. (b) Train a three-layer backpropagation network to learn the behavior of a life cell. Use two hidden units. ({c) Print out the set of weights and biases learned by the network. Now derive a set of (symbolic) tules that concisely describes how the network is actually computing its output. Focus on the behaviors of the two hidden units-how do they respond to their inputs, and what effects do they have on the eventual output? (d) Compare the rules you derived in part (c) with the rules you used to create the data in part (a). . Imagine a Kohonen network that is fed with pictures of several faces of human beings. What do you the network will learn? . A robot is to navigate on a terrain that has many obstacles, If you could divide the area into a matrix comprising small cells a robot could sense the presence or absence of an obstacle in the cell it traverses. If a Kohonen network is made to learn this information in what way can the learnt information be used for the future course of navigation in the same environment? CHAPTER 19 COMMON SENSE There is nobody so irritating as somebody with less intelligence and more sense than we have. Don Herold (1889-1966), American humorist, writer, illustrator and cartoonist Computers have. an entirely deserved reputation for lacking common sense. 