of the Earth, and that the Earth itself revolved around the sun. This view would have been an anathema to the prevailing human centric view of the world, and Copernicus delayed the publication of his book On the Revolution of the Spheres till the end of his life. When it did get published, the book drove a wedge between thought and reality. What we thought the world was, did not necessarily reflect as it really was. Galileo Galilei (1564-1642) futher developed the notion that what we think and perceive is something that happens within us. He said that the fact that the when we taste, smell or hear something and associate a name with it, the name is really a name we give to the sensation that arises in us. In our modern parlance, one would say that the fragrance of a flower we perceive is caused by certain molecules emitted by the flower, but the fragrance we feel is the sensations caused by those molecules in our nasal glands. This notion was taken up later by John Locke (1632-1704) who distinguished between the primary qualities matter has, independent of the perceiver; and the secondary qualities of matter that are as perceived by us. Galileo was perhaps one of the first to assert that we can reason with our own representations, which may not necessarily mirror what we are reasoning about, but stand for elements of the subject in some way. The most well known example of this is the way Galileo explained motion. Algebraic systems were yet to be devised, and Galileo s represntations were geometric. If, for example, one side (the height) of a right angled triangle represents the final speed of a body accelerating uniformly from rest, and the other side (the base) represents the time elapsed then the area represents the distance covered. For uniform motion, the shape would be a rectangle. The important point is that Galileo showed that we can create representations, and that the representations can stand for something else. In fact, the same representation can stand f