those
in the conversation imagined by Turing.4 Searle then argues: the person in the room does
not understand Chinese (given). The rule book and the stacks of paper, being just pieces of
paper, do not understand Chinese. Therefore, there is no understanding of Chinese. Hence,
accordingto Searle,runningtherightprogramdoesnotnecessarilygenerateunderstanding.
Like Turing, Searle considered and attempted to rebuff a number of replies to his ar-
gument. Several commentators, including John Mc Carthy and Robert Wilensky, proposed
what Searle calls the systems reply. The objection is that asking if the human in the room
understands Chinese is analogous to asking if the CPU can take cube roots. In both cases,
the answer is no, and in both cases, according to the systems reply, the entire system does
havethecapacityinquestion. Certainly,ifoneasksthe Chinese Roomwhetheritunderstands
Chinese, theanswerwouldbeaffirmative(influent Chinese). By Turing spoliteconvention,
thisshouldbeenough. Searle sresponse istoreiteratethe pointthattheunderstanding isnot
inthehumanand cannot beinthepaper, sothere cannot beanyunderstanding. Heseemsto
be relying on the argument that a property of the whole must reside in one of the parts. Yet
4 Thefact that thestacks of paper might contain trillionsof pages and thegeneration of answerswould take
millionsofyearshasnobearingonthelogicalstructureoftheargument. Oneaimofphilosophicaltrainingisto
developafinelyhonedsenseofwhichobjectionsaregermaneandwhicharenot.
1032 Chapter 26. Philosophical Foundations
wateriswet, even though neither Hnor O is. Therealclaim madeby Searle rests upon the
2
followingfouraxioms(Searle,1990):
1. Computerprogramsareformal(syntactic).
2. Humanmindshavementalcontents (semantics).
3. Syntaxbyitselfisneitherconstitutive ofnorsufficient forsemantics.
4. Brainscauseminds.
From the first three axioms Searle concludes that programs are not sufficient for minds. In
otherwords,anagentrunningaprogram mightbeamind,butitisnotnecessarilya