eaction Grabcan be
used to pick up the gold if it is in the same square as the agent. The action Shoot can
beusedtofireanarrowinastraight lineinthedirection theagentisfacing. Thearrow
continues untiliteitherhits(andhence kills) thewumpusorhits awall. Theagent has
only one arrow, so only the first Shoot action has any effect. Finally, the action Climb
canbeusedtoclimboutofthecave,butonlyfromsquare 1,1 . Sensors: Theagenthasfivesensors, eachofwhichgivesasinglebitofinformation: Inthe square containing the wumpusand in thedirectly (not diagonally) adjacent
squares, theagentwillperceivea Stench. Inthesquares directlyadjacent toapit,theagentwillperceivea Breeze. Inthesquarewherethegoldis,theagentwillperceivea Glitter. Whenanagentwalksintoawall,itwillperceivea Bump. When the wumpus is killed, it emits a woeful Scream that can be perceived any-
whereinthecave.
The percepts will be given to the agent program in the form of a list of five symbols;
forexample, ifthereisastenchandabreeze, butnoglitter, bump,orscream,theagent
programwillget Stench,Breeze,None,None,None .
We can characterize the wumpus environment along the various dimensions given in Chap-
ter2. Clearly,itisdiscrete,static,andsingle-agent. (Thewumpusdoesn tmove,fortunately.)
It is sequential, because rewards may come only after many actions are taken. It is partially
observable, because some aspects of the state are not directly perceivable: the agent s lo-
cation, the wumpus s state of health, and the availability of an arrow. As for the locations
of the pits and the wumpus: we could treat them as unobserved parts of the state that hap-
pentobeimmutable in whichcase, thetransition modelfortheenvironment iscompletely
238 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
4 Stench Breeze PIT
Breeze
3 Stench PIT Breeze
Gold
2 Stench Breeze
1 Breeze PIT Breeze
START
1 2 3 4
Figure7.2 Atypicalwumpusworld.Theagentisinthebottomleftcorner,facingright.
known;orwecouldsaythatthetransitionmodelitselfisunknownbecausetheagentdoesn t
know which Forw