ledge-based systems ) that could, if given the appropriate
domain knowledge, matchorexceed theperformance ofhumanexperts onnarrowlydefined
tasks. For example, the first expert system, DENDRAL (Feigenbaum et al., 1971; Lindsay
etal.,1980),interpreted theoutputofamassspectrometer(atypeofinstrumentusedtoana-
lyzethestructureoforganicchemicalcompounds)asaccuratelyasexpertchemists. Although
the success of DENDRAL was instrumental in convincing the AI research community of the
importance ofknowledge representation, therepresentational formalisms used in DENDRAL
are highly specific to the domain of chemistry. Over time, researchers became interested in
standardized knowledge representation formalisms and ontologies that could streamline the
process of creating new expert systems. In so doing, they ventured into territory previously
explored by philosophers of science and of language. The discipline imposed in AI by the
needforone stheoriesto work hasledtomorerapidanddeeperprogressthanwasthecase
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 469
whenthese problems weretheexclusive domain ofphilosophy (although ithasattimesalso
ledtotherepeated reinvention ofthewheel).
Thecreationofcomprehensivetaxonomiesorclassificationsdatesbacktoancienttimes.
Aristotle(384 322 B.C.) stronglyemphasizedclassificationandcategorization schemes. His
Organon,acollection ofworksonlogicassembledbyhisstudentsafterhisdeath,included a
treatisecalled Categoriesinwhichheattemptedtoconstructwhatwewouldnowcallanupper
ontology. Healso introduced thenotions of genusand species forlower-level classification.
Ourpresentsystemofbiologicalclassification,includingtheuseof binomialnomenclature (classification via genus and species in the technical sense), was invented by the Swedish
biologist Carolus Linnaeus, or Carl von Linne (1707 1778). The problems associated with
natural kinds and inexact category boundaries have been addressed by Wittgenstein (1953),
Quine(1953), Lakoff(1987),and Schwartz(1977),amongothers.
Intere