ssical Al knowledge-rich methods. They often rely on a form of heuristic search in the learning process. Examples of Some weak learning methods are given in the next chapter under the names of Learning Automata and Genetic Algorithms. We will be studying these and many of the more knowledge-rich fonns of learning in more detail later, particularly various types of inductive learning. 16.3 KNOWLEDGE ACQUISITION IS DIFFICULT One of the important lessons learned by Al researchers during the 1970s and early 1980s is that knowledge is not easily acquired and maintained. It is a difficult and time-consuming process. Yet expert and other knowledge-based systems require an abundant amount of well correlated knowledge to achieve a satisfactory level of intelligent performance. Typically, tens of person years are often required to build up a knowledge base to an acceptable level of performance. This was certainly true for the early expert systems such as MYCIN, DENDRAL. PROSPECTOR, and XCON. The acquisition effort encountered in building these systems provided the impetus for researchers to search for new efficient methods of acquisition. It helped to revitalize a new interest in general machine learning techniques. Sec. 16.4 General Learning Model 361 Early expert systems initially had a knowledge base consisting of a few hundred rules. This is equivalent to less than 106 bits of knowledge. In contrast, the capacity of a mature human brain has been estimated at some 10" bits of knowledge (Sagan. 1977). If we expect to build expert systems that are highly competent and possess knowledge in more than a single narrow domain, the amount of knowledge required for such knowledge bases will be somewhere between these two extremes, perhaps as much as l O' bits. If we were able to build such systems at even ten times the rate these early systems were built, it would still require on the order of l O person years. This estimate is based on the assumption that the time required is dire