 Chapter 1. Introduction
the field. But curiously, a review of the book became as well known as the book itself, and
served to almost kill off interest in behaviorism. The author of the review was the linguist
Noam Chomsky, who had just published a book on his own theory, Syntactic Structures.
Chomsky pointed out that the behaviorist theory did not address the notion of creativity in
language it didnotexplain howachild could understand and makeupsentences thatheor
shehadneverheardbefore. Chomsky stheory based onsyntacticmodelsgoingbacktothe
Indian linguist Panini(c. 350 B.C.) could explain this, andunlike previous theories, itwas
formalenoughthatitcouldinprinciple beprogrammed.
Modern linguistics and AI, then, were born at about the same time, and grew up
COMPUTATIONAL together, intersectinginahybridfieldcalled computationallinguisticsornaturallanguage
LINGUISTICS
processing. Theproblemofunderstandinglanguagesoonturnedouttobeconsiderablymore
complex than it seemed in 1957. Understanding language requires an understanding of the
subjectmatterandcontext,notjustanunderstandingofthestructureofsentences. Thismight
seem obvious, but it was not widely appreciated until the 1960s. Much of the early work in
knowledge representation (the study of how to put knowledge into a form that a computer
can reason with) was tied to language and informed by research in linguistics, which was
connected inturntodecades ofworkonthephilosophical analysis oflanguage.
1.3 THE HISTORY OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Withthebackground materialbehindus,wearereadytocover thedevelopment of AIitself.
1.3.1 The gestationofartificialintelligence (1943 1955)
The first work that is now generally recognized as AI was done by Warren Mc Culloch and
Walter Pitts (1943). They drew on three sources: knowledge of the basic physiology and
function of neurons in the brain; a formal analysis of propositional logic due to Russell and
Whitehead; and Turing stheoryofcomputation. Theyproposed amodelofartificialneurons
i