the term heuristic function. And we attempt to minimize rather than maximize the value of the objective function. Thus we actually describe a process of valley descending rather than hill climbing. Simulated annealing [Kirkpatrick et al., 1983] as a computational process is patterned after the physical process of annealing, in which physical substances such as metals are melted (i.e., raised to high energy levels) and then gradually cooled unti] some solid state is reached. The goal of this process is to produce a minimal-energy final state. Thus this process is one of valley descending in which the objective function is the energy level, Physical substances usually move from higher energy configurations to lower ones, so the valley descending occurs naturally. But there is some probability that a transition to a higher energy state will occur. This probability is given by the function p= e Se AT where A is the positive change in the energy level Tis the temperature, and & is Boltzmann s constant. Thus, in the physical valley descending that occurs during annealing, the probability of a large uphill move is lower than the probability of a small one. Also, the probability that an uphill move will be made decreases as the temperature decreases. Thus such moves are more likely during the beginning of the process when the temperature is high, and they become less likely at the end as the temperature becomes lower. One way to characterize this process is that downhill moves are allowed anytime. Large upward moves may occur early on, but as the process progresses. only relatively small upward moves are allowed until finally the process converges to a local minimum configuration. The rate at which the system is cooled is called the annealing schedule. Physical annealing processes are very sensitive to the annealing schedule. If cooling occurs too rapidly, stable regions of high energy will form. In other words, a local but not global minimum is reached. If. however, a slow