 mi, oi, fi, di and si. The last relation e equal is symmetric and does not have an inverse. The thirteen relations between two intervals, a and b, in Allen s interval algebra are given in Table 10.1. They are also described by the point algebra relations between the end points of the two actions agtar, end: Ostart, ANd beng. In addition, with every action a, there is an implicit constraint or relation astart endTable 10.1 The 13 relations in Allen s interval algebra Name Description Inverse Point algebra description ba, b) ais before b bia, b) Ogg Binas bia, b) ais after b (before inverse) ba, b) Getart Bend m(a, b) a meets b mi(a, b) mi(a, b) ais met by b, (meets inverse) m(a, b) ofa, b) a overlaps b oi(a, b) Geng Deng oi(a, b) ais overlapped by b, (overlaps inverse) ofa, b) end Bend etre Brrr fia, b) a finishes b fila, b) fila b) ais finished by b, (finishes inverse) fa, b) d(a, b) ais during b di(a, b) di(a, b) a contains b, (during inverse) d(a, b) s(a, b) a starts b si(a, b) si(a, b) ais started by b, (starts inverse) s(a, b) e(a, b) ais equal to b e(a, b) Two actions are independent if they are nonmutex. Independent actions can be executed in parallel. Plans with instantaneous actions can have actions in parallel, only if they are independent. When we have durative actions, apart from independent actions happening in parallel, there may be situations when actions are required to be executed in parallel in one or more specific relation from the interval algebra. The term required concurrency was introduced in (Cushing et al., 2007). These requirements are not stated explicitly, but are implied by the preconditions and effects of durative actions. Durative actions can be described in PDDL2.1. The following is a simplified description of the (cook) Chapati operator. (:durative action chapati tparameters (?c - chapatiDough ?s - stove ?g -ghee) :duration ( ?duration 5) :conditicn (and (at start (rolled ?c)) (at start (free ?s)) (at start (lighted ?s)) (overall (li