Diagnostic Engine Very often, one observation may not be enough to pinpoint the fault. One may have to generate more observations. This could be done either by changing the input parameters if possible, or by measuring values of internal terminals where possible. For each observation OBS, one can find a set of minimal conflicts' denoted CS ogs. As defined above, each conflict contains a group of suspects, at least one of which must be broken. Let OBS be the set of all observations and CS the union of all conflict sets associated with the different observations. Observe that CS grows monotonically with the observations. A conflict set identifies a set of components, at least one of which is broken. A hitting set HS;cs covers each conflict set, in the sense that it identifies at least one element in it. A hitting set HS signifies the fact that all components in the hitting set are broken. That is, we associate a mode assignment MA; 5 with the hitting set that assigns a broken status to all components in the hitting set, and okay to the remaining components. A hitting set HS is minimal if no proper subset of HS is a hitting set. A minimal hitting set satisfies the following property, and is therefore a candidate for being a diagnosis. MAys AB(c) c HS U 4B(c) e COMP HS and SD U MAps U OBSy 1 for all observations OBSy OBS Let HS be the set of hitting sets associated with CS . Each hitting set HS in HS is a candidate diagnosis, and says that every component in HS is broken. Also observe that, The General Diagnostic Engine (GDE) presented by de Kleer and Brown (1987) keeps only the minimal hitting sets at each state. The number and size of the minimal hitting sets may increase or decrease as more evidence is found. Let Obe the frame of discernment or the set of all possible broken components' . The space in which the diagnosis algorithm has to search is the power set of . As shown in Figure 17.13, when the device is working the empty set is the only minimal candidate. This