, (Lenz 1996, 1999), (Lenz and Burkhard, 1996) we study next is a structure that has a forwarding chaining flavour. The Case Retrieval Net (CRN) is a two stage, feed-forward network. It falls in the class of activation spreading algorithms (Anderson, 1983), (Hendler, 1988). The basic idea is that the query activates certain nodes in a network, followed by a process of activation spreading to neighbouring nodes, eventually activating nodes representing (matching) cases. The Case Retrieval Net is a directed graph that is made up of two kinds of nodes. 1. Information Entity (IE) Nodes Information entity nodes are the components used to describe cases. Each JE can be viewed as an Attribute, Value pair. For every such pair that exists in the case base, a node is created in the CRN. E nodes have an activation value in the range 0,1 which represents the local similarity of the value of the attribute in the query with the E node. 2. Case Nodes A case node represents a case. It may have an activation value in the range 0,1 . The value represents similarity of the case with the query, or relevance of the case for the query. The arcs between nodes are used to propagate activation values. An arc between two E nodes captures local similarity between the two values. Presumably, the two values correspond to the same attribute, but that is not a strict requirement. This local similarity value can be represented by an adjacency matrix defined as follows. Let E be the set of E nodes and C be the set of case nodes. Then, local similarity between E nodes is a function o:E x E 0,1 , and is represented by the adjacency matrix Sim. Each nonzero value oj, in Sim represents the similarity between the E nodes e; and e; and is the weight of the arc between the two nodes. An arc between two E nodes is used to induce activation from one node to another. The E nodes that match the query are assigned an activation value 1 to start with. The other kind of arc is the relevance arc that links an IE 