ere we want to learn the concept "something that is either yellow or spherical." For this, we use the following training instances from a blocks world. (yellow pyramid soft large +) (blue sphere soft small +) (yellow pyramid hard small +) (green large sphere hard +) (yellow cube soft large +) (blue cube soft small ) (blue pyramid soft large ) After the first three training examples have been given to the learner, the resultant description is the empty Set. concept _name:(yellow or spherical object) positive part: cluster:description:() :examples: (yellow pyramid soft large) (blue sphere soft small) (yellow pyramid hard small) negative_ part: :examples: Since the next two examples, are also positive, the only change to the above frame is the addition of the fourth and fifth training instances to the cluster examples. However, the sixth training instance is negative. This forces a split due to the inconsistency. In rebuilding the clusters this time, we rebuild starting with the last positive (fifth) example and work backwards as though the examples were put on a Sec. 18.6 Example of an Inductive Learner 395 stack. This is actually the order used in the original system. After the fifth and fourth examples are processed, the following frame is produced. concept_name:(yellow, or spherical object) positive part: cluster:description:(large) :examples: (yellow cube soft large) (green large sphere hard) negative-part: examples: Next, when an attempt is made to merge the third example, an inconsistency results. Therefore, this example must be put into a separate cluster. The same applies when an attempt is made to merge the second exmple with either of the new clusters; merging with the first cluster results in the empty set, while merging with the second cluster results in the set (small) which is also inconsistent with the negative example (blue cube soft small). This forces the creation of a third cluster. Finally, after attempts are made to merge the first example (it mer