 1996). Plaat et al. (1996) developed a new viewof SSS asacombination ofalpha beta andtransposition tables, showinghowtoover-
come the drawbacks of the original algorithm and developing a new variant called MTD(f)
thathasbeenadopted byanumberoftopprograms.
D. F.Beal (1980) and Dana Nau (1980, 1983) studied the weaknesses of minimax ap-
pliedtoapproximate evaluations. Theyshowedthatundercertainassumptions aboutthedis-
tributionofleafvaluesinthetree,minimaxingcanyieldvaluesattherootthatareactuallyless
reliable than the direct use of the evaluation function itself. Pearl s book Heuristics (1984)
partially explains this apparent paradox and analyzes many game-playing algorithms. Baum
and Smith (1997) propose a probability-based replacement for minimax, showing that it re-
sults in better choices in certain games. The expectiminimax algorithm was proposed by
Donald Michie (1966). Bruce Ballard (1983) extended alpha beta pruning to cover trees
withchancenodesand Hauk(2004)reexaminesthisworkandprovides empiricalresults.
Koller and Pfeffer (1997) describe a system for completely solving partially observ-
able games. The system is quite general, handling games whose optimal strategy requires
randomized moves and games that are more complex than those handled by any previous
system. Still, it can t handle games as complex as poker, bridge, and Kriegspiel. Frank
et al. (1998) describe several variants of Monte Carlo search, including one where MIN has
192 Chapter 5. Adversarial Search
complete information but MAX does not. Among deterministic, partially observable games,
Kriegspiel has received the most attention. Ferguson demonstrated hand-derived random-
izedstrategiesforwinning Kriegspielwithabishopandknight(1992)ortwobishops(1995)
against a king. The first Kriegspiel programs concentrated on finding endgame checkmates
and performed AND OR search in belief-state space (Sakuta and Iida, 2002; Bolognesi and
Ciancarini,2003). Incrementalbelief-statealgorithmsenabledmuchmorecom