he hierarchical levels discussed above, a robotic agent may have to keep track of actions designed to maintain its balance and perhaps poise, satisfy operating constraints (for example, while moving from one place to another keep the arms by the side, unless carrying a desired object), and keep a check on its own energy levels (resource), inserting a charging action if needed. An agent may have a large number of goals and may be compelled to treat them as soft goals in a dynamic environment. An autonomous agent may also have to cater to new goals that may arise due to unexpected change, or as new, high level commands are received. Further, it will have to manage its own time, making judicious allocations to sensing, deliberating and acting. A significant amount of engineering effort is required to coordinate and control the activities of its many components. We briefly look at an approach to planning in the real world that has been successfully tried out in two domains. 10.7.1 RAX Space applications are naturally suited for autonomous agents. Imagine a spacecraft hurtling towards Jupiter in 1994 with the task of tracking the comet Shoemaker-Levy 922. At a distance of over 800 million kilometres from Earth, it would take about 27 seconds for light to travel from Earth to the spacecraft. Which means it would take 27 seconds for an image sent from the spacecraft to reach Earth, and likewise for a command sent from Earth to reach the spacecraft. It is imperative that the spacecraft be able to respond autonomously to at least some situations. For example, it may need to swerve to avoid a floating piece of rock, or take an image of a passing one. In 2008, a signal from the Voyager 1 spacecraft in the outer reaches of the solar system took 14 hours and 52 minutes to reach NASA s Deep Space Network (Poon, 2010). Clearly, controlling Voyager 1 remotely is out of the question. Closer home, one may need autonomy if one had a low earth orbit satellite because it would be visibl