ledge of the language as well as the required real world information e Processing spoken language, using all the information needed above plus additional knowledge about phonology as well as enough added informal ion to handle the further ambiguities that arise in speech Actually, in understanding spoken language, we take advantage of clues, such as intonation and the presence of pauses, to which we do not have access when we read. We can make the task of a speech-understanding program easier by allowing it, too, to use these clues, but to do so, we must know enough about them to incorporate into the program knowledge of how to use them. 286 Artificial Intelligence RUN CLNESEME NANNIES AERATED The Problem: English sentences are incomplete descriptions of the information that they are intended to convey: Some dogs are outside. | called Lynda to ask her to the movies. She said she'd love to go. L 1 Some dogs are on the lawn. She was home when | called. Three dogs are on the lawn. She answered the phone. Rover, Tripp, and Spot are on the lawn. | actually asked her. The Good Side: Language allows speakers to be as vague or as precise as they like. It also allows speakers to leave out things they believe their hearers already know. The Problem: The same expression means different things in different contexts: Where's the water? (in a chemistry lab, it must be pure) Where's the water? (when you are thirsty, it must be potable) Where s the water? (dealing with a leaky roof, it can be filthy) The Good Side: Language lets us communicate about an infinite world using a finite (and thus learnable) number of symbols. The Problem: No natural Janguage program can be complete because new words, expressions, and meanings can be generated quite freely: I'll fax it to you. The Good Side: Language can evolve as the experiences that we want to communicate about evolve. The Problem: There are lots of ways to say the same thing: Mary was born on October 11. Mary's birthday is October 11.