ws, it will be helpful to adopt a classification or taxonomy of learning types to serve as a guide in studying or comparing differences among them. One can develop learning taxonomies based on the type of knowledge representation used (predicate calculus, rules, frames), the type of knowledge learned (concepts, game playing, problem solving), or by the area of application (medical diagnosis, scheduling, prediction, and so on). The classification we will use, however, is intuitively more appealing and one which has become popular among machine learning researchers. The classification is independent of the knowledge domain and the representation scheme used. It is based on the type of inference strategy employed or the methods used in the learning process. The five different learning methods under this taxonom y are Memorization (rote learning) Direct instruction (by being told) Analogy Induction Deduction Learning by memorization is the simplest form of learning. It requires the least amount of inference and is accomplished by simply copying the knowledge in the same form that it will be used directly into the knowledge base. We use this type of learning when we memorize multiplication tables, for example. A slightly more complex form of learning is by direct instruction. This type of learning requires more inference than rote learning since the knowledge must be transformed into an operational form before being integrated into the knowledge base. We use this type of learning when a teacher presents a number of facts directly to us in a well organized manner. 360 General Concepts in Knowledge Acquisition Chap. 16 The third type Listed, analogical learning, is the process of learning a new concept or solution through the use of similar known concepts or solutions. We use this type of learning when solving problems on an exam where previously learned examples serve as a guide or when we learn to drive a ttuck using our knowledge of car driving. We make frequent use of 