s and hopes to gain an extra trick when East has the queen. The Tignum 2 program is at the heart of the commercially available BridgeBaron2 program. Another interesting, and a much more complete treatment on bridge play is described in the doctoral thesis by lan Frank (1998) that explored the relation between partial plans and proof planning. Their approach is motivated from the area of mathematical reasoning combined with explicit probabilistic reasoning with card combination. The details are beyond the scope of this book, and the interested reader is referred to the published work. As of writing this text, the champion program? in the tournament circuit is called Jack22, but the author has no information on its working. 8.4.2 Scrabble Scrabble? is a popular board game in which two or four players place letter tiles on a 15 by 15 board to form words according to rules similar to crossword rules. The game is played with a bag of 100 tiles, 98 of which are labelled with letters from the alphabet, along with a number between 0 and 10 representing the points associated with that letter. The other two tiles are blank and may represent any letter the player playing it chooses. Each player holds a rack of seven tiles drawn randomly from the bag of tiles, and these are hidden from the other player(s). The players play alternately, placing tiles on the board to form legal words as defined by some dictionary; for example the Official Scrabble Player s Dictionary (OSPD) published (Merriam-Webster, 2005), and replace the played tiles with new ones randomly chosen from the bag. Each new word formed should be meaningfully connected to the existing words, either extending one, or cross-linking with one, as in crosswords. At no time must there exist a sequence of letters not part of a word. After each move, the player gets a score which is the sum of the scores of the words formed by the player in that move. This score may be augmented when the tiles are placed on specially marked