WordNet Noun Network showing a concept hierarchy (an adapted version of an example in (Jiang et al., 1997)). In the terminology of WordNet, a word has a form (the sequence of letters that comprise it). A word form could have multiple meanings; this is referred to as polysemy. The word bank , for example, can refer to a financial bank or a river bank. The different meanings of a particular word form are often referred to as senses. Determining the right sense in which a word form is being used is a nontrivial problem that goes by the name of Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD). WSD relies on contextual information as obtained from neighbouring words to determine the correct meaning of a given word. It is also commonplace that several word forms map onto the same meaning; this is referred to as synonymy. Search engines like Google that aim at retrieving relevant documents based on very few search terms need to handle synonymy and polysemy effectively. If a search engine can recognize synonyms, it can ensure that a prospect document does not get left out. If a search engine handles polysemy effectively, it can prevent an irrelevant document from getting retrieved. The second property of a word is its Part of Speech. The Part of Speech (POS) dictates the suitability of words to tie up with each other to give rise to grammatical sentences. An analogy can be drawn to valency of atoms, which is primarily responsible in dictating which molecules are possible and which are not. A molecule in which atoms don t have their valencies pairing up is like an ungrammatical sentence where the parts of speech of words are not in agreement with each other. There are primarily five Parts of Speech: nouns, prepositions, verbs, adjectives and adverbs. A word can be associated with more than one Part of Speech. As with WSD, determining the right Part of Speech of a word requires one to look at neighbouring words; this is referred to as the Part of Speech Tagging (POST) problem. The third prope