h models learned
according to the principles of information theory. That approach fell out of favor in the
1960s, butreturnedinthelate1990sandnowdominatesthefield.
Neural networks also fitthis trend. Much of the work on neural nets in the 1980s was
done inanattempt toscope out whatcould bedone and tolearn howneural netsdifferfrom traditional techniques. Usingimprovedmethodology and theoretical frameworks, thefield
arrived at an understanding in which neural nets can now be compared with corresponding
techniquesfromstatistics,patternrecognition,andmachinelearning,andthemostpromising
technique can be applied to each application. As a result of these developments, so-called
dataminingtechnology hasspawnedavigorous newindustry.
DATAMINING
Judea Pearl s(1988)Probabilistic Reasoningin Intelligent Systemsledtoanewaccep-
tance ofprobability anddecision theory in AI,following aresurgence ofinterest epitomized
by Peter Cheeseman s (1985) article In Defense of Probability. The Bayesian network
BAYESIANNETWORK
formalism was invented to allow efficient representation of, and rigorous reasoning with,
uncertain knowledge. This approach largely overcomes many problems of the probabilistic
reasoningsystemsofthe1960sand1970s;itnowdominates AIresearchonuncertainreason-
ing and expert systems. The approach allows for learning from experience, and it combines
thebestofclassical AIandneuralnets. Workby Judea Pearl(1982a)andby Eric Horvitzand
David Heckerman(Horvitzand Heckerman,1986;Horvitzetal.,1986)promotedtheideaof
normative expert systems: ones that act rationally according to the laws of decision theory
anddonottrytoimitatethethoughtstepsofhumanexperts. The Windows TM operatingsys-
tem includes several normative diagnostic expert systems for correcting problems. Chapters
13to16coverthisarea.
Similar gentle revolutions have occurred in robotics, computer vision, and knowledge
representation. Abetterunderstanding oftheproblemsand theircomplexityproperties,com-
bined withincreased math