mption that everyone prefers cheaper prices, fasterprocessors, and more storage.
Someattributes,suchasscreensizeonanotebook,dependontheuser sparticularpreference
(portability versusvisibility); forthese,theshopping agentwilljusthavetoasktheuser.
The shopping agent we have described here is a simple one; many refinements are
possible. Still, it has enough capability that with the right domain-specific knowledge it can
actually be of use to a shopper. Because of its declarative construction, it extends easily to
more complex applications. The main point of this section is to show that some knowledge
representation in particular, theproducthierarchy isnecessaryforsuchanagent,andthat
oncewehavesomeknowledgeinthisform,therestfollowsnaturally.
12.8 SUMMARY
By delving into the details of how one represents a variety of knowledge, we hope we have
given the reader a sense of how real knowledge bases are constructed and a feeling for the
interesting philosophical issuesthatarise. Themajorpointsareasfollows: Large-scale knowledge representation requires ageneral-purpose ontology to organize
andtietogetherthevariousspecificdomainsofknowledge. Ageneral-purpose ontology needs tocoverawidevariety ofknowledge andshould be
capable, inprinciple, ofhandling anydomain. Building a large, general-purpose ontology is a significant challenge that has yet to be
fullyrealized, although currentframeworksseemtobequiterobust. We presented an upper ontology based on categories and the event calculus. We
covered categories, subcategories, parts, structured objects, measurements, substances,
events,timeandspace,change, andbeliefs.
468 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation Naturalkindscannotbedefinedcompletelyinlogic,butpropertiesofnaturalkindscan
berepresented. Actions, events, and time can be represented either in situation calculus or in more
expressiverepresentations suchaseventcalculus. Suchrepresentations enableanagent
toconstruct plansbylogicalinference. Wepresentedadetailedanalysisofthe Inte