sing features which discriminate between the two meetings (Figure 11.7). If a third meeting is now entered, say one between Vance and Sadat of Egypt. which is also about Arab-Israeli peace, new E-MOPs will be formed since this meeting has some features in common with the Begin (VI) meeting. One of the new E-MOPs that is formed is indexed under the previous topic index. It has the following structure: Topic EMOP) SALT Topic Arab-Israeli peace Underlyins topc: peace Involves: Israel and the Arabs EV2 Participants: heads of state Participants' nationalities Israel Egypt I, F's/i EV2 The key issues in this type of organization are the same as those noted earlier. They are (I) the selection and computation of good indices for new events so that simiiaevents can be located in memory for new event integration. (2) monitoring and reorganization of memory to accommodate new events as they occur, and (3) access of the correct event information when provided clues for retrieval. Chap. 11 Exercise S 225 11.5 SUMMARY Effective memory organization can facilitate remembering (knowledge retrieval and access). memory management (knowledge reorganization), and forgetting. These are important components of the overall knowledge manipulation process. They are essential adjuncts to the reasoning and learning functions.. Popular forms of intelligent knowledge organization schemes are associative networks, networks of frames, or other structured representation schemes. These schemes will permit the effective organization and revision of knowledge into meaningful categories. Items within each category should share common features and individual items are best indexed by their differences.. Access to categories and items can then be made through indices determined by content rather than meaningless keys. The best type of indices are those with good predictive power. Thus, relevant features determined by content and uniqueness to an item are good sources for index determination. The CYRUS sy