 Much of this work has been done from the perspective of perception and understanding, but is also applicable to planning and problem solving. Various terms have been used for the process of aggregating information. The most commonly used term is schemata (Sowa, 1984). Herbert Simon used the term chunks (Simon, 1974) and postulated that human expertise involves a larger and larger collection of such chunked patterns. He estimated that good chess players have about a 1000 of them, while masters could have a hundred times more. Marvin Minsky introduced the notion of frames (Minsky, 1975), a structure used to aggregate information and a precursor of objects (see Chapter 14). A considerable amount of work done at Yale University in the seventies introduced knowledge structures like Conceptual Dependency, Scripts and Memory Organization Packets with focus on natural language understanding (Schank and Abelson, 1977), (Schank and Riesbeck, 1981), (Schank, 1982; 1999). We looked at some of these concepts in Chapters 13 and 14. From this body of work emerged the notion of Case Based Reasoning (CBR) as a methodology of problem solving (Riesbeck and Schank, 1989), (Kolodner, 1993). The simple idea behind CBR is that a problem solver should remember what works and what does not work. It solves problems by consulting its repository of cases in its memory. If a new solution is devised, by any means, then it is added to the repository. This has been summed up succinctly as a process of four R s (Aamodt and Plaza, 1994) and is illustrated in the Figure 15.6 adapted from their work. Problem Retrieve - T i Reuse Y k ier al Adaptation tT Knowledge Problem-solving Knowledge Solution FIGURE 15.6 The case based reasoning cycle. A case is made up of two constituents, a description and a lesson. The first part contains a representation of the problem description that is used to access cases, and the second contains the key to constructing the solution. The four R s define the CBR methodolo