progress with limited visual hardware. Only the center of the retina maintains good spatial resolution; as a result, we must constantly shift our attention among various points of interest. Each snapshot lasts only about two hundred milliseconds. Since individual neural firing rates usually lie in the millisecond range, each scene must be interpreted in about a hundred computational steps. To compound the problem, each interpretation must be rapidly integrated with previous interpretations to enable the construction of a stable three-dimensional model of the world. These severe timing constraints strongly suggest that human vision is highly parallel. Connectionism offers many methods for studying both the engineering and biological aspects of massively parallel vision. Parallel relaxation plays an important role in connectionist vision systems [Ballard ef ai., 1983; Ballard, 1984}. Recall our discussion of parallel relaxation search in Hopfield networks and Boltzmann machines. In a typical system, some neural units receive their initial activation levels from a video camera and then these activations are iteratively modified based on the influences of nearby units. One use for relaxation is detecting edges. If many units think they are located on an edge border, they can override any dissenters. The relaxation process settles on the most likely set of edges in the scene. While traditional vision programs running on serial computing engines must reason about which regions of a scene require edge detection processing, the connectionist approach simply assumes massively parallel machinery [Fahlman and Hinton, 1987]. Visual interpretation also requires the integration of many constraint sources. For example, if two adjacent areas in the scene have the same color and texture, then they are probably part of the same object. If these 398 Artificial Intelligence constraints can be encoded in a network structure, then parallel relaxation is an attractive technique for combin