changed. Ordinal Representation Interestingly, there does exist a tour representation where the simple crossover can be used producing valid tours. This is known as the ordinal representation. We begin by arranging the cities to create a reference order R of the cities. Since we are interested in the index of cities in this reference, we name the cities themselves by letters to avoid confusion. R (A,B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I) Then a tour, say C-D-F-E-B-G-I-H-A, is represented as a list L of references which is constructed as follows. The first entry in L is the reference index from R for the first city in the tour, in this case, city C in position 3 in R. We also modify the reference index R by deleting the city C from it. L (3) R (A,B, D, E, F, G, H, ) The next city in the tour D is now in the third position in the modified reference R. We have, L (3, 3) R (A,B, E, F, G, H, 1) The next city F is in the fourth position in the updated R. L (3, 3, 4) R (A,B, E, G, H, I) Continuing in this manner, we get a tour representation for the given tour as, L (3, 3, 4, 3, 2, 2, 3, 2, 1) The reader is encouraged to verify that with the ordinal representation, one can use an arbitrary simple crossover operator that will yield valid tours as offspring. The advantage is that while the coding of tours may take some computational effort, once we have a population of tours available, the GA implementation becomes faster because we can use, say a single point crossover. Adjacency Representation Another representation of tours that has been experimented with is the adjacency representation. This is an indexed representation in which city;is in position j in the list if in the tour the salesman goes from city;to city; For example, the representation (4, 5, 7, 2, 6, 8, 1, 9, 3) can be interpreted as follow. Starting with 1, the next city in the tour is 4, because 4 is in the first place in the representation. From 4, the next hop is to city 2, because 2 is in the fourth position. The complet