ted systems. 2 OVERVIEW OF OBJECT-ORIENTED SYSTEMS The basic idea behind an OOS is the notion of classes of objects interacting with each other to accomplish some set of tasks. The objects have well-defined behaviors. They interact with each other through the use of messages. When a task needs to be performed, an object is passed a message which specifies the task requirements. The receiving object then takes appropriate action in response to the message and res?onds by returning a message to the sender. In performing the required task. the receiver may need assistance from other objects, thereby prompting further messages to be Sent. - These ideas are illustrated in Figure 8.2 which depicts the simulation of a seaport facility. Ocean ships arrive for docking, unloading, loading, and departing. When the facilities (tugboats, berths, and loading and unloading equipment and crews) are busy, arriving ships must queue and wait at sea until space and other facilities are available. The harbor master coordinates the arrivals and departures by assigning tugs and other resources to the arriving ships. The objects in this example are, of course, the individual ships, the tugs, the docks, the harbor master. 150 Object-Oriented Representations Chap. 8 Sea vessel I and maneuver, I_Shi P25j I I I I I Load.ng I j Harbor Doek 2 I I I I Figure 8.2 Objects communicating to complete a task and the cargo handling facilities. Actions are initiated by message passing between these objects: The dashed lines connecting members of the class of sea vessels depict the way common characteristics and operational behaviors are shared by members of the same class (they all have a coordinate position, a maximum cruising speed, cargo capacity, and so on). Tasks are performed when a message is sent from one object to another.. For exmaple, the harbor master may send a message to a tug to provide assistance to ship 87 in deberthing from dock 2. This would then result in a sequence of actions from th