leared by two uses of PICKUP. But after one PICKUP, an attempt to do the second results in another difference the arm must he empty. PUTDOWN can be used to reduce that difference. Once PUSH is performed, the problem state is close to the goal state, but not quite. The objects must be placed back on the desk. PLACE will put them there. But it cannot be applied immediately. Another difference must be eliminated, since the robot must be holding the objects. The progress of the problem solver at this point is shown in Fig. 3.18. A B c E D | | | | | | | | Push | Pick up [Put down! Pick up|Put down! Push! | Place Start Gaal Fig. 3.18 More Progress of the Means-Ends Method 74 Artificial Intelligence ae inneneniesnniminimiameiaiiad The final difference between C and E can be reduced by using WALK to get the robot back to the objects, .. Howed by PICKUP and CARRY. Fhe process we have just illustrated (which we call MEA for short) can be summarized as follows: Algorithm: Means-Ends Analysis (CURRENT, GOAL) 1, Compare CURRENT to GOAL. If there are no differences between them then return. 2. Otherwise, select the most important difference and reduce it by doing the following until success or failure is signaled: (a) Select an as yet untried operator O that is applicable to the current difference. If there are no such operators, then signal failure. (b) Attempt to apply O to CURRENT. Generate descriptions of two states: O-START, a state in which O s preconditions are satisfied and O-RESULT, the state that would result if O were applied in OSTART. (c) If (FIRST-PART MEA(CURRENT, O-START)) and (LAST-PART <~ MEMO-RESULT, GOAL)) are successful, then signal success and retum the result of concatenating FIRST-PART, O, and LAST-PART. Many of the details of this process have been omitted in this discussion. In particular, the order in which sifferences are considered can be critical. It is important that significant differences be reduced before less critical ones. If this is not done, 