 figure, categories are shown in shaded square boxes, and correspond to sets in the underlying domain. For example, the category paby-girl would refer to the set of elements in the universe that are baby girls. In the figure, each (large) oval represents kinds of things. Let us assume that the oval in the bottom left contains elements which for the sake of illustration are human beings. The oval containing the square boxes then is the set of categories. Other categories could be schoolgirl , teenage-girl , teenage-boy , college-girl , mother , grandmother , etc. Observe that the categories need not be distinct. They simply represent subsets of the universe. Further, categories may themselves be grouped into a higher level category. For example, the category teenager could contain the categories teenage-girl and teenage-boy , and the category female could contain the categories schoolgirl , baby-girl , teenage-girl , mother and grandmother . In fact, the categories at the second level correspond to supersets of the base elements, corresponding to the constituent categories. Yet we will add the categories themselves as reified elements to augment our domain so that we can reason directly about them. The lowest level in the abstraction hierarchy corresponds to sets of elements, or objects, in the domain. The aggregation hierarchy defines other layers exemplified by the oval on the right. The elements of such a layer are composite elements. For example, an element at this layer might be a family . A family may be thought of as another reified element, which in reality is made up of its parts. A family in turn may be part of a larger unit, say a clan, which in turn may be part of a tribe, a community, a nation, and so on. Each of these levels could have abstractions of their own, giving rise to a complex network of kinds of things, when we add elements other than humans to our universe, both material and nonmaterial. Extreme examples are alluded to by noun phrases like t