ve table does not tell us what to do if we want to reduce the difference for tile 4, if it is in the position of tile 2. The point is that such a macro is not required for completeness, because by the time the turn of tile 4 comes, tile 2 would already be in place, and hence tile 4 could not have been in the location of tile 2. Also the macros are not unique. For example, the macro UL at location (1, 0) could also been LU. It has been shown that if we can find operators that allow us to arrange the differences so that the invariance relations can be arranged in a triangle then the solver is complete (Banerji, 1977). Using the macro table, one can solve the problem from any starting position when a solution exists. The solution found may not be optimal though. Finally, one could choose a different order of solving the differences, and then find the appropriate macro moves. In fact, the work by Korf demonstrates how this can be done. 7.5.2 NOAH An important characteristic of top-down problem solving is that one should start by looking at the problem in totality at the abstract level, and then work on the detail. The search based methods we have seen earlier operate at the level of primitive moves or operators, and try and synthesize plans or solutions from them. In the GPS formulation, one does look at a problem and address the largest difference, but it needs an appropriate set of operators. Korf showed that one can construct appropriate macros from primitive operators and use them in planning with the MEA strategy. But in doing so, all the hard work has been pushed into the task of finding or learning those macro operators. Given the appropriate operator difference table, there is no search required any longer, and the plan or solution can be constructed by looking up the table. There is a need for search algorithms to be able to operate at different levels of abstraction. STRIPS like systems also use the MEA strategy, but are compelled to work with the primitive op