f
the airports: (x ,y ), (x ,y ), and (x ,y ). This is a six-dimensional space; we also say
1 1 2 2 3 3
that states are defined by six variables. (In general, states are defined by an n-dimensional
VARIABLE
vector of variables, x.) Moving around in this space corresponds to moving one or more of
the airports on the map. The objective function f(x ,y ,x ,y ,x ,y ) is relatively easy to
1 1 2 2 3 3
compute for any particular state once we compute the closest cities. Let C be the set of
i
citieswhoseclosestairport(inthecurrentstate)isairporti. Then,intheneighborhood ofthe
currentstate,wherethe C sremainconstant, wehave
i
(cid:12)3 (cid:12)
f(x ,y ,x ,y ,x ,y ) (x x )2 (y y )2 . (4.1)
1 1 2 2 3 3 i c i c
i 1c Ci
This expression is correct locally, but not globally because the sets C are (discontinuous)
i
functions ofthestate.
Onewaytoavoidcontinuousproblemsissimplytodiscretizetheneighborhoodofeach
DISCRETIZATION
state. Forexample, we can move only one airport at a time in either the x or y direction by
a fixed amount . With 6 variables, this gives 12 possible successors for each state. We
can then apply any of the local search algorithms described previously. We could also ap-
ply stochastic hill climbing and simulated annealing directly, without discretizing the space.
Thesealgorithmschoosesuccessorsrandomly,whichcanbedonebygeneratingrandomvec-
torsoflength .
Many methods attempt to use the gradient of the landscape to find a maximum. The
GRADIENT
gradientoftheobjectivefunctionisavector f thatgivesthemagnitudeanddirectionofthe
steepest slope. Forourproblem,wehave
(cid:13) (cid:14) f f f f f f f , , , , , . x y x y x y
1 1 2 2 3 3
Insomecases,wecanfindamaximumbysolvingtheequation f 0. (Thiscouldbedone,
forexample,ifwewereplacingjustoneairport;thesolutionisthearithmeticmeanofallthe
cities coordinates.) In many cases, however, this equation cannot be solved in closed form.
For example, with three airports, the expression for the gradient depends on what cities are
closest