he rules have been portrayed as a matrix commonly referred to as a Fuzzy Associative Memory (FAM). Try placing the truck at different orientations at the corners and trace its path. In case it is unsuccessful try changing the rules within this matrix and inspect the ways in which the truck parks. CHAPTER 23 GENETIC ALGORITHMS: COPYING NATURE S APPROACHES In order to form an immaculate member of a flock of sheep one must, above all, be a sheep. Albert Einstein (1879-1955,) German-born theoretical physicist 23.1 A PEEK INTO THE BIOLOGICAL WORLD While Mother Nature has acted as a real-world laboratory for churning out existence proofs, man has constantly looked up at her to provide for innovative methodologies and paradigms that can aid in solving complex problems. From systems that are modeled on the biological neuronal networks to those that mimic genetic evolutions, this relentless quest for gaining insights into the techniques of controlling, regulating and adapting delicate systems has continued over time. Genetic Algorithms form one such technique copied from nature that relies largely on the manner in which we all have evolved over a period of time. Let us thus take a quick look at the manner in which humans replicate. In humans, the sperm from the father and the egg from the mother supply the chromosomes that make up the child. Both the sperm and the egg contain 23 chromosomes labeled | through 23. A chromosome from the sperm and an identically numbered one from the egg make up a homologous chromosome pair in a child. Every chromosome is built up of several millions of genes. Every gene contributes to a Phenvtype a specific feature or characteristic of the offspring such as the color of the eye, blood group, etc. Such characteristics are thus inherited from the parents or ancestors. The blood group of a child could take on one of the four possible. phenotypes O, A, B or AB. Further each gene for the blood type can have values 0, [ or 2. These are called Alleles