besopreciselydescribedthatamachinecanbemadetosimulateit. Thus,
AI wasfounded on theassumption that weak AI ispossible. Others have asserted that weak
AI is impossible: Artificial intelligence pursued within the cult of computationalism stands
notevenaghostofachanceofproducing durableresults (Sayre,1993).
Clearly, whether AI isimpossible depends on how itisdefined. In Section 1.1, wede-
fined AIasthequestforthebestagentprogramonagivenarchitecture. Withthisformulation,
AI isby definition possible: forany digital architecture with k bits ofprogram storage there
areexactly2k agentprograms,andallwehavetodotofindthebestoneisenumerateandtest
them all. This might not be feasible for large k, but philosophers deal with the theoretical,
notthepractical.
1020
Section26.1. Weak AI:Can Machines Act Intelligently? 1021
Our definition of AI works well for the engineering problem of finding a good agent,
given an architecture. Therefore, we re tempted to end this section right now, answering the
title question in the affirmative. But philosophers are interested in the problem of compar-
ing two architectures human and machine. Furthermore, they have traditionally posed the
CANMACHINES question notintermsofmaximizingexpected utilitybutratheras, Canmachinesthink? THINK?
Thecomputerscientist Edsger Dijkstra (1984) said that Thequestion ofwhether Ma-
CANSUBMARINES chines Can Think ...isabout asrelevant asthequestion ofwhether Submarines Can Swim. SWIM?
The American Heritage Dictionary s first definition of swim is To move through water by
means of the limbs, fins, or tail, and most people agree that submarines, being limbless,
cannot swim. Thedictionary alsodefines flyas Tomovethrough theairbymeansofwings
orwinglikeparts, andmostpeopleagreethatairplanes,havingwinglikeparts,canfly. How-
ever,neitherthequestionsnortheanswershaveanyrelevance tothedesignorcapabilities of
airplanes andsubmarines; rathertheyareabout theusage of wordsin English. (Thefactthat
ships do swim in Russian only ampl