 it is desirable that an appropriate similarity measure be used to insure that only candidate analogues bearing a strong similarity to the new situation beconsidered. Third, it is important that the mapping process from base to target domain be flexible enough to capture and import only the appropriate parts of the descriptions. The mapping should be able to transform objects, attributes, and predicates into corresponding ones which best meet the requirements of the target domain situation. For a general analogical system, this mean hat the transformation process should be dynainicalladatable to map heto lillerent domains and at different levels of abstraction, Analogical and Explanation-Based Learning Chap. 20 420 \\1VV Knowr, f,on Krhhoff law E,r,d flow rate Q (b) Figure 20.2 Analogical problem solving example. Next, the newly created solution must be tested for its suitability This test can be as informal as a simulated solution trial in the target domain or as formal as a deductive test of logical entailment. Finally, having found an analogy and tested it successfully, the resultant episode should be generalized if possible and then summarized, encoded, indexed and stored for subsequent use in reasoning or learning. A simple example will help to illustrate this process. Suppose we are given the problem of determining the flow rate of a thud from a simple Y junction of pipes (Figure 20.2b). We are asked to determine the value of Q3 given only knowledge A description of this unknown prob4ern reminds us of of the flow rates Qt and Q2. a similar known problem, that of finding the flow rate of electrical current in a circuit junction. We recall the solution method to the electrical problem as being that based on Kirchhoff's current flow law, namely, that the -win the currents at a junction is zero. We use this knowledge in an attempt to solve the hydraulic flow problem using the same principles, that is, we map the electncai flow solution to the hydraulic flow proble