her than algorithms and general search methods. This approach marked a significant departure from conventional Al systems architectures at the time. The accepted direction of researchers then was to use Al systems that employed general problem solving techniques such as hill-climbing or means-end analysis (Chapter 9) rather than specialized domain knowledge and heuristics. This departure from the norm proved to be a wise choice. It led to the development of a new class of successful systems and special system designs. The first expert system to be completed was DENDRAL, developed at Stanford University in the late 1960s. This system was capable of determining the structure of chemical compounds given a specification of the compound's Constituent elements and mass spectrometry data obtained from samples of the compound. DENDRAL used heuristic knowledge obtained from experienced chemists to help constrain the problem and thereby reduce the search space. During tests, DENDRAL discovered a number of structures previously unknown to expert chemists. As researchers gained more experience with DENDRAL, they found how difficult it was to elicit expert knowledge from experts. This led to the development of Meta-DENDRAL, a learning component for DENDRAL which was able to learn rules from positive examples, a form of inductive learning described later in detail (Chapters 18 and 19). Shortly after DENDRA1. was completed, the development of MYCIN began at Stanford University. MYCIN is an expert system which diagnoses infectious blood diseases and determines a recommended list of therapies for the patient. As part of the Heuristic Programming Project at Stanford, several projects directly related to MYCIN were also completed including a knowledge acquisition component called THEIRESIUS, a tutorial component called GUIDON, and a shell component called EMYCIN (for Essential MYC[N) EMYCIN was used to build other diagnostic systems including PUFF, a diagnostic expert for pulmonary di