ues. X Y ( xty xreX yey AY xy xeX yeY Y -x xeX X1 1 xex Two coarse values can be said to be of different orders of magnitude, if they come from or are associated with two different sets called Small and Rough that satisfy the following properties. 0 Small 1 Rough Small is closed under addition, multiplication and additive inverse. Small Small Small Small x Small Small Small Small Rough is closed under addition, multiplication, and multiplicative inverse. Rough Rough Rough Rough x Rough Rough Rough Rough Small absorbs Rough for multiplication. Small x Rough Small Rough absorbs Small for addition Rough Small Rough Observe that if you divide a small quantity by a small quantity, one could get a large quantity. Hence, Small is not closed under the multiplicative inverse. Likewise, Rough is not closed under additive inverse, since one could subtract a large quantity from another large quantity to get a small quantity. If two nonzero quantities p and q have the same sign, that is o o q o, and belong to the same coarse set, then their addition results in the same coarse value. That is, FF p -(q THEN p X Small q x Small (p q) x Small AND px Rough q X Rough (p q) x Rough In other words, if we add two small quantities of the same sign, we get another small quantity, and similarly for two rough quantities of the same size. This has a problem though, because if you keep adding small quantities, eventually the result will be large. Raiman offers a model in which both Small and Rough are sets of functions over the real interval (0,1), in which each quantity q is mapped onto a real function f,(x) with x in the open interval. Smail is the set of functions that tend to 0 as x tends to 1. The set Rough has a more involved definition. A function f, ( t) is an element of Rough, iff there is a pair of strictly positive reals K and KY, such that as t approaches 1, the function fis bounded below by K and bounded above by KT , Raiman defines different degrees of equality at different scale