f moving a 64-disk tower to pandits (priests) in Benaras (now Varanasi). The world is supposed to come to an end when they complete the task. 14 By level of abstraction, we mean the level in the tree generated by the hierarchy. The relation between parent and child may be different in different kinds of hierarchies. 15 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Hunt the Wumpus Game Playing Chapter 8 laying games like Chess well has long been considered a hallmark of intelligence amongst humans. The game of Chess was most likely invented in India (Murray, 1985), and has long been considered as a training ground for strategic thinking. Chess requires strategic and tactical skills, and in countries like the erstwhile USSR, it was actively promoted to help develop analytic skills (Kotov and Youdovich, 2002). The computer science community quickly took up games from the earliest times. The first paper on computer chess was published by Claude Shannon (Shannon, 1950). In this paper, he discussed the merits and demerits of complete versus selective search. The first dramatic success in implementing games came, however, in checkers (also known as draughts). In the Dartmouth Conference (McCarthy et al., 1955) where the term Al was coined in 1956, one of the big exhibits was Arthur Samuel s checkers playing program. The striking feature of Samuel's Checkers program (Samuel, 1959) was that it learnt from experience, and grew better and better at the game, eventually defeating Samuel himself. In 1968, the British grandmaster David Levy had wagered a bet that no machine could beat him in Chess. The duration of the bet, fortunately for Levy, was 10 years. In 1989, Levy was soundly beaten by the computer program Deep Thought in an exhibition match. Computer programs improved steadily in performance, and by the mid-nineties were of world champiomship calibre. In 1996, IBM s Deep Blue (Campbell et al., 2002; Hsu, 2004) did achieve the feat of beating world champion Garry Kasparov, and in the f