liner,2 and before I make it to the other side of the
street Iamflattened. Was Iirrationaltocrossthestreet? Itisunlikelythatmyobituarywould
read Idiotattemptstocrossstreet. This example shows that rationality is not the same as perfection. Rationality max-
imizes expected performance, while perfection maximizes actual performance. Retreating
from a requirement of perfection is not just a question of being fair to agents. The point is
that if we expect an agent to do what turns out to be the best action after the fact, it will be
impossibletodesignanagenttofulfillthisspecification unlessweimprovetheperformance
ofcrystal ballsortimemachines.
2 See N.Henderson, Newdoorlatchesurgedfor Boeing747jumbojets, Washington Post,August24,1989.
Section2.2. Good Behavior: The Conceptof Rationality 39
Our definition of rationality does not require omniscience, then, because the rational
choice depends only on the percept sequence to date. We must also ensure that we haven t
inadvertently allowedtheagenttoengageindecidedly underintelligent activities. Forexam-
ple,ifanagentdoesnotlookbothwaysbeforecrossingabusyroad,thenitsperceptsequence
will not tell it that there is a large truck approaching at high speed. Does our definition of
rationality saythatit snow OK tocross theroad? Farfromit! First,itwould notberational
tocross the road given thisuninformative percept sequence: the riskofaccident from cross-
ingwithoutlookingistoogreat. Second,arationalagentshouldchoosethe looking action
before stepping into the street, because looking helps maximize the expected performance.
Doing actions in order to modify future percepts sometimes called information gather-
INFORMATION ing is an important part of rationality and is covered in depth in Chapter 16. A second
GATHERING
exampleofinformationgathering isprovidedbythe exploration thatmustbeundertaken by
EXPLORATION
avacuum-cleaning agentinaninitially unknownenvironment.
Ourdefinition requires arational agentnotonlytogatherinformation butalsot