uit is a
subclass of Food and Apples is a subclass of Fruit, then we can infer that every apple is
edible. We say that the individual apples inherit the property of edibility, in this case from
theirmembership inthe Food category.
Subclassrelationsorganizecategoriesintoataxonomy,ortaxonomichierarchy. Tax-
TAXONOMY
onomieshavebeenusedexplicitlyforcenturiesintechnicalfields. Thelargestsuchtaxonomy
organizesabout10millionlivingandextinctspecies,manyofthembeetles,2 intoasinglehi-
erarchy;librarysciencehasdeveloped ataxonomyofallfieldsofknowledge, encoded asthe
Dewey Decimal system; and tax authorities and other government departments have devel-
opedextensivetaxonomiesofoccupationsandcommercialproducts. Taxonomiesarealsoan
importantaspectofgeneralcommonsense knowledge.
First-order logic makes it easy to state facts about categories, either by relating ob-
jects to categories orby quantifying overtheir members. Here are some types of facts, with
examplesofeach: Anobjectisamemberofacategory.
BB Basketballs
9 Acategoryisasubclassofanothercategory.
Basketballs Balls Allmembersofacategoryhavesomeproperties.
(x Basketballs) Spherical(x)
1 Turningapropositionintoanobjectiscalledreification,fromthe Latinwordres,orthing. John Mc Carthy
proposedtheterm thingification, butitnevercaughton.
2 Thefamousbiologist J.B.S.Haldanededuced Aninordinatefondnessforbeetles onthepartofthe Creator.
Section12.2. Categoriesand Objects 441 Membersofacategory canberecognized bysomeproperties.
Orange(x) Round(x) Diameter(x) 9.5 (cid:2)(cid:2) x Balls x Basketballs Acategoryasawholehassomeproperties.
Dogs Domesticated Species
Notice that because Dogs is acategory and is amemberof Domesticated Species, the latter
must be a category of categories. Of course there are exceptions to many of the above rules
(punctured basketballs arenotspherical); wedealwiththeseexceptions later.
Although subclass and member relations are the most important ones for categories,
we also want to be able to state relations be