deals, it is possible to state exactly the correct thing to be done in each particular set of circumstances (although it may require a relatively complex set of antecedents to do so), One reason for this is that there exists a good deal of human expertise in this area. Another is that since Rl is doing a design task (in contrast to the diagnosis task performed by MYCIN), it is not necessary to consider all possible alternatives; one good one is enough. As a result, probabilistic information is not necessary in R1. PROSPECTOR [Duda ef ai.. 1979; Hart et al., 1978] is a program that provides advice on mineral exploration. Its mules look like this: If: magnetite or pyrite in disseminated or veinlet form is present then: (2, -4} there is favorable mineralization and texture for the propylitic stage. In PROSPECTOR, each rule contains two confidence estimates. The first indicates the extent to which the presence of the evidence described in the condition part of the rule suggests the validity of the rule s conclusion. In the PROSPECTOR rule shown above, the number 2 indicates that the presence of the evidence is mildly encouraging. The second confidence estimate measures the extent to which the evidence is necessary to the validity of the conclusion, or stated another way, the extent to which the lack of the evidence indicates that the conclusion is not valid. In the example rule shown above, the number 4 indicates that the absence of the evidence is strongly discouraging for the conclusion. DESIGN ADVISOR [Steele et al., 1989] is a system that critiques chip designs, Its rules look like: If: the sequential level count of ELEMENT is greater than 2, UNLESS the signal of ELEMENT is resetable then: critique for poor resetability DEFEAT: poor resetability of ELEMENT due to: sequential level count of ELEMENT greater than 2 by: ELEMENT is directly resetable 424 Artificial Intelligence The DESIGN ADVISOR gives advice to a chip designer, who can accept or reject the advice. If th