lutionwilleventu-
allyreachthegoalprovidedthateachoutcomeofanondeterministicactioneventuallyoccurs.
Is this condition reasonable? It depends on the reason forthe nondeterminism. If the action
rollsadie,then it sreasonable tosuppose thateventually asixwillberolled. Iftheaction is
toinsertahotelcardkeyintothedoorlock,butitdoesn t workthefirsttime,thenperhaps it
willeventuallywork,orperhapsonehasthewrongkey(orthe wrongroom!). Aftersevenor
138 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
eighttries,mostpeoplewillassumetheproblem iswiththekeyandwillgobacktothefront
desk to getanew one. Onewayto understand this decision isto saythat the initial problem
formulation (observable, nondeterministic) is abandoned in favor of a different formulation
(partially observable, deterministic) where the failure is attributed to an unobservable prop-
ertyofthekey. Wehavemoretosayonthisissuein Chapter13.
4.4 SEARCHING WITH PARTIAL OBSERVATIONS
We now turn to the problem of partial observability, where the agent s percepts do not suf-
fice to pin down the exact state. As noted at the beginning of the previous section, if the
agent is in one of several possible states, then an action may lead to one of several possible
outcomes even if the environment is deterministic. The key concept required for solving
partiallyobservableproblemsisthe beliefstate,representing theagent scurrentbeliefabout
BELIEFSTATE
the possible physical states it might be in, given the sequence of actions and percepts up to
that point. Webegin withthe simplest scenario forstudying belief states, which iswhen the
agenthasnosensorsatall;thenweaddinpartialsensingaswellasnondeterministic actions.
4.4.1 Searching withno observation
When the agent s percepts provide no information at all, we have what is called a sensor-
less problem or sometimes a conformant problem. At first, one might think the sensorless
SENSORLESS
agent has no hope ofsolving aproblem if ithas no idea whatstate it s in; in fact, sensorless
CONFORMANT
problems are 