dge when it is no In luger \ '111d tnt no longer needed i These characterist cs suggest that memory he organized around ,n lusters of knowledge Related clusters should be grouped and stored in close princrin it\ to each other and he linked to similar concepts through ussuciatixe relations Access to any given cluster should he possible through either direct or indirect links such is concept pointers indexed h) meaning. Index kc "fill s nnninoinnniu' meanings should provide links to the same know ledge clusters 1 hese notions are illustrated graphieulk in Figure II. I where the clusters represent urhitrars groups of close!> related know ledge such as objects and their properties or basic conceptual categories. The links connecting the clusters are Iwoxxay pointers which provide relational associations between the clusters thev connect. 214 Knowledge Organization and Management Chap. II assrat Ive links Figure 11.1 Indexed clusters of linked knowledge The Frame Problem One tricky aspect of systems that must function in dynamic environments is due to the so-called frame problem. This is the problem of knowing what changes hase and have not taken place following some action. Some changes will he the direct result of the action. Other changes will be the result of secondary or side etiects rather than the result of the action. For example, if a robot is cleaning the floor ,, in a house, the location of the floor sweeper changes with the robot even though this Source input Cor Tipute index Anal C /Z o e n t a e l x te ts rnate 'It Retrieve relevant Fai knowledge t Succeed Marco,, Reorganize memory Figure 11.2 Memoni organi,ation functions Sec. 11.2 Indexing and Retrieval Techniques 215 is not explicitly stated. Other objects not attached to the robot remain in their rigina) places: The actual changes must somehow be reflected in memory. a feat that requires some ability to infer. Effective memory organization and management methods must take into account effects caused by 