(nikhil53, t7) is true? . Modify the event calculus axioms EC1 to EC4 so that the effect of the event at time point t, is felt at a later time point tf). Apply the modified axioms to the example problem in the text. Sian, the Sein, Load and Shoot(x) actions and the fluents Loaded and Alive(x), assume that the ONLY effect of Shoot(x) action Lay Alvers) becomes false if Loaded is true. The effect of Load is that Loaded becomes true. Spin releases the fluent Loaded. Express the domain knowledge in Event Calculus. Given that following events take place at the times mentioned (Load, 10), (Spin, 20), (Shoot(A), 30), (Shoot(B), 40), (Spin, 50), (Shoot(C), 60) add the required formulas to the domain predicates that will entail that A and B are either both alive or both not alive at time 80. What can you say about state of C at time 80? Define fluents and domain axioms to reason about the use of a telephone. The representation must be able to talk about the different states of the phone instrument (idle, ringing, dial tone, connected, engaged tone, disconnected and so on), the different actions (dial, pickup, putdown, and so on), and the relations between them (reference (Mueller, 2006)). Express the following story (repeated from Exercise 15 in Chapter 12) using the Event Calculus and the CD theory predicates, A father and his son were walking along the road when they met with an accident. The father died on the spot and the son was rushed to the hospital. When he was brought to the operating table the surgeon refused to operate upon him saying cannot operate upon this boy. He is my son . co OU x x V1 OA ) ) p 4 a, FIGURE 13.19 A retrograde analysis problem on Noughts and Crosses. 15. 16. 17. Map the following words phrases into relevant CD states livid, hopping mad, unwell, relaxed, afraid, sleepy. Create CD representations for the following sentences, (a) Ainmere bought a book. (b) Adriana threw the pencil to Ayumu. (c) Adriana threw the pencil at Ayumu. (d) The bottles a