ediatrician Scandainavian ) Show how the information about Marianne is augmented. 10. Express the following sentences in Description Logic. (a) Sachin plays for Mumbai Indians and has more than one million fans. (b) Sucheta is a faculty member. (c) The ABC University employs Sucheta. (d) Sucheta has at least two cousins, and all her cousins are fans only of cricketers and are all fans of Sachin. (e) ABC University is a university that employs only Indian citizens who have a PhD degree. What are the most specific concepts that the individuals Sachin and Sucheta belong to? Explain the procedure used to arrive at the answers. 11. Given the following information about the given set of individuals, baba Politician cP AND Party ALL :Leaders Rich FILLS :Leader baba fFam AND Family FILLS :Member baba ALL :Member Famous ALL :Member Dynasty backv AND FILLS :Voted cP ALL :Voted Corrupt sachin AND FILLS :Team bombay Famous EXISTS 100000 :Fan sucheta (AND EXISTS 2 :Cousin ) ALL :Cousin AND FILLS :FanOf sachin ALL :FanOf Cricketer Collect all information about each individual in one place, using the propagation algorithm. Show each step from the algorithm clearly. 12. Given two descriptions d,yp D-EXISTS n rd and dsuper DEXISTS mre , write a structure matching rule that can be used to answer the question whether (dgup Asuper)- 13. One can extend the description logic from Section 14.7 (with the ALL, EXISTS, FILLS and AND operators) to include an operator DEXISTS n rd which can be used to say that there are n role fillers from class d. For example, to describe the set of all people with at least two children who are girls one would say D-EXISTS 2 :Child Girl . Give the formal semantics of this new operator. An alternative is to use the existing operators and introduce a new role named GirlChild. Discuss the pros and cons of the two approaches. 14. The structure matching rule looks for corresponding components in dsyp ANd Asuper- We can extend the set of structure matching rules to