 definition should then become a bit clearer, or less necessary. 14 THE LEVEL OF THE MODEL Before we set out to do something, it is a good idea to decide exactly what we are trying to do. So we must ask ourselves, What is our goal in trying to produce programs that do the intelligent things that people do? Are we trying to produce programs that do the tasks the same way people do? Or, are we attempting to produce What is Artificial Intelligence? 19 enc i OA EAC ELIA LSEN programs that simply do the tasks in whatever way appears easiest? There have been AI projects motivated by each of these goals. Efforts to build programs that perform tasks the way people do can be divided into two classes, Programs in the first class attempt to solve problems that do not really fit our definition of an Al task. They are problems that a computer could easily solve, although that easy solution would exploit mechanisms that do not seem to be available to people. A classical example of this class of program is the Elementary Perceiver and Memorizer (EPAM) [Feigenbaum, 1963], which memorized associated pairs of nonsense syllables. Memorizing pairs of nonsense syllables is easy for a computer. Simply input them. To retrieve a response syllable given its associated stimulus one, the computer just scans for the stimulus sy[lable and responds with the one stored next to it. But this task is hard for people. EPAM simulated one way people might perform the task. Jt built a discrimination net through which it could find images of the syllables it had seen. It also stored, with each stimulus image, a cue that it could later pass through the discrimination net to try to find the correct response image. But it stored as a cue only as much information about the response syllable as was necessary to avoid ambiguity at the time the association was stored. This might be just the first letter, for example: But, of course, as the discrimination net grew and more syllables were added, an old cue might 