 from node / to node j at time , the value of 7G) changes to (0) + AC. This tends to increase the probability of this arc being used by other ants. To avoid overcrowding due to high pheromone concentration on sub-optimal paths (leading to a local minima in this case), the pheromone is made to evaporate at some rate as in the real ants world. Evaporation is modeled as an exponential curve =(1y) & where yis a value chosen in the interval (0, 1). In the real world ants update their pheromone trails on the fly. In the world of optimization, this method may be tweaked or changed to suit the search domain. Trails could be updated after the ant discovers a solution path. Such trails could be updated based on the fitness of the solution found. The pheromone laid along the paths could be proportional to its fitness. This will force other ants to tread along such hopefully better solutions. The reader is urged to survey both technical literature available on these as also the abundant resources existing in the world around. Ants A Obstacie Food Fig. 23.13 23.9 POINTS TO PONDER It seems we are all undergoing constant evolution - mentally or physically. Since we are possibly nearing the plateau of change it is difficult for us to easily gauge differences between our previous generations and us. Furthermore, change in nature is not as rapid to be noticeable over short periods (even several thousands of years). If we turn the tables and look the other way at nature we conclude that all living beings as a whole are just like those chromosomes in the GA pool, with the genetic operators doing their job and our survivability 478 Artificial Intelligence in our respective environments acting as the fitness function. Nature has its own constraints well encoded in its GA. Nature's GA is multi dimensional and far too complex to visuafize. A highly fit population could multiply too fast and destroy other essential species of populations that are responsible for maintaining nature's subtle 