dices to two particular event meetings EV I and EV2, is illustrated in Figure If 7. One of the meetings indexed was between Vance and Gro!nyko of the USSR in which they discussed SALT (arms limit talks). This is labeled as event EV I in the figure. The second meeting was between Vance and Begin of Israel in which they discussed Arab-Israeli peace. This is labeled as event EV2. Note that each of these events can be accessed through more than one feature (index). For example. LVI can be located from the SMEET event through a topic value of "Arab-Israel peace." through a participants' nationality value of "Israel,'* through a participants occupation value of 'head of state." and so on. As new diplomatic meetings are entered into the system, they are either integrated with the SMEET E-MOP as a separately indexed event or merged with another event to form a new specialized meeting E-MOP. When several events belonging See. 11.4 Memory Organization Systems 223 Frame $MEET Content - -. included in: negotiations participants: Foreign diplomats - I topic international contracts topic involves: the United States activities: political and occupational for Vance Topic Participants' Underlying nationality teipic Arab - israel SALT Israel USSR Peace Arms peace limits 4 EV1 EV2 EVI t V2 EV1 EV2 Topics Panticipjnts sides occupdt,r,fls Israel USS' Foreign Head of and minister state Arabs EVt 1V2 EV2 EV1 Figure 11.7 An cxaiaipk of an E:\l OFi ',uh ti tndescd events 1:5 I and P. to the same MOP category are entered. common e'rent features are used to generalize the E-MOP. This information is collected in the traitie contents. Specialization ina also he required when overgeneralization has occurred. Thus, mctnor\ is cntinual Iv being reorganized as ness facts are entered This process prevents the addition of excessive memory entries and touch redundancy which would result it eser' event entered resulted in the addition of a separate event. Reorganization can also cause forgetting. since