ofproperties thateveryperson
hasandproperties thatmakesomething aperson: x Person(x) ... x ... Person(x).
Axioms can also be just plain facts, such as Male(Jim) and Spouse(Jim,Laura).
Such facts form the descriptions of specific problem instances, enabling specific questions
to be answered. The answers to these questions will then be theorems that follow from
the axioms. Often, one finds that the expected answers are not forthcoming for example,
from Spouse(Jim,Laura)oneexpects(underthelawsofmanycountries)tobeabletoinfer Spouse(George,Laura);butthisdoesnotfollowfromtheaxiomsgivenearlier evenafter
weadd Jim (cid:7) George assuggested in Section8.2.8. Thisisasignthatanaxiomismissing.
Exercise8.8asksthereadertosupplyit.
8.3.3 Numbers, sets,and lists
Numbers are perhaps the most vivid example of how a large theory can be built up from
a tiny kernel of axioms. We describe here the theory of natural numbers or non-negative
NATURALNUMBERS
integers. We need a predicate Nat Num that will be true of natural numbers; we need one
constant symbol, 0; and we need one function symbol, S (successor). The Peano axioms
PEANOAXIOMS
definenaturalnumbersandaddition.9 Naturalnumbersaredefinedrecursively:
Nat Num(0). n Nat Num(n) Nat Num(S(n)).
That is, 0 is a natural number, and for every object n, if n is a natural number, then S(n) is
a natural number. So the natural numbers are 0, S(0), S(S(0)), and so on. (After reading
Section 8.2.8, you will notice that these axioms allow for other natural numbers besides the
usualones;see Exercise8.12.) Wealsoneedaxiomstoconstrain thesuccessorfunction: n 0 (cid:7) S(n). m,n m (cid:7) n S(m)(cid:7) S(n).
Nowwecandefineadditionintermsofthesuccessorfunction: m Nat Num(m) (0,m) m. m,n Nat Num(m) Nat Num(n) (S(m),n) S( (m,n)).
The first of these axioms says that adding 0 to any natural number m gives m itself. Notice
theuseofthebinaryfunctionsymbol intheterm (m,0);inordinary mathematics, the
termwouldbewritten m 0usinginfixnotation. (Thenotationwehaveu