).
By far the most comprehensive source on heuristics and heuristic search algorithms
is Pearl s (1984) Heuristics text. This book provides especially good coverage of the wide varietyofoffshootsandvariationsof A ,includingrigorousproofsoftheirformalproperties.
Kanal and Kumar(1988) present an anthology of important articles on heuristic search, and
Rayward-Smithetal.(1996)coverapproaches from Operations Research. Papersaboutnew
search algorithms which, remarkably, continue to be discovered appear in journals such
as Artificial Intelligence and Journal ofthe ACM.
Thetopic ofparallel search algorithms wasnot coveredinthechapter, partly because
PARALLELSEARCH
it requires a lengthy discussion of parallel computer architectures. Parallel search became a
populartopicinthe1990sinboth AIandtheoreticalcomputerscience(Mahantiand Daniels,
1993; Grama and Kumar, 1995; Crauser et al., 1998) and is making a comeback in the era
of new multicore and cluster architectures (Ralphs et al., 2004; Korf and Schultze, 2005).
Also of increasing importance are search algorithms for very large graphs that require disk
storage(Korf,2008).
EXERCISES
3.1 Explainwhyproblem formulation mustfollowgoalformulation.
3.2 Yourgoalistonavigatearobotoutofamaze. Therobotstarts inthecenterofthemaze
Exercises 113
facing north. You can turn the robot to face north, east, south, or west. You can direct the
robottomoveforwardacertaindistance, although itwillstopbeforehittingawall.
a. Formulatethisproblem. Howlargeisthestatespace?
b. In navigating a maze, the only place we need to turn is at the intersection of two or
morecorridors. Reformulatethisproblemusingthisobservation. Howlargeisthestate
spacenow?
c. Fromeachpointinthemaze,wecanmoveinanyofthefourdirectionsuntilwereacha
turningpoint, andthisistheonlyactionweneedtodo. Reformulatetheproblemusing
theseactions. Doweneedtokeeptrackoftherobot sorientation now?
d. In our initial description of the problem we already abstracted from the real world,
restricting a