 schema says that if an open can is in view, then the agent perceives the
color of the paint in the can. Because there are no exogenous events in this world, the color
of an object will remain the same, even if it is not being perceived, until the agent performs
an action to change the object s color. Of course, the agent will need an action that causes
objects(oneatatime)tocomeintoview:
Action(Look At(x),
PRECOND:In View(y) (x(cid:7) y)
EFFECT:In View(x) In View(y))
Fora fully observable environment, we would have a Percept axiom with no preconditions
for each fluent. A sensorless agent, on the other hand, has no Percept axioms at all. Note
that evenasensorless agent can solvethe painting problem. Onesolution istoopen anycan
of paint and apply it to both chair and table, thus coercing them to be the same color (even
thoughtheagentdoesn tknowwhatthecoloris).
A contingent planning agent with sensors can generate a better plan. First, look at the
table and chair to obtain their colors; if they are already the same then the plan is done. If
not, look at the paint cans; if the paint in a can is the same color as one piece of furniture,
thenapplythatpainttotheotherpiece. Otherwise,paintbothpieceswithanycolor.
Finally,anonlineplanningagentmightgenerateacontingent planwithfewerbranches
at first perhaps ignoring the possibility that no cans match any of the furniture and deal
Section11.3. Planningand Actingin Nondeterministic Domains 417
with problems when they arise by replanning. It could also deal with incorrectness of its
action schemas. Whereas a contingent planner simply assumes that the effects of an action
always succeed that painting the chair does the job a replanning agent would check the
resultandmakeanadditional plantofixanyunexpectedfailure,suchasanunpaintedareaor
theoriginalcolorshowingthrough.
Intherealworld,agentsuseacombinationofapproaches. Carmanufacturerssellspare
tires and air bags, which are physical embodiments of contingent plan branches designed
to 