ense a physical world and act in it. 18.9 Discussion The earliest success in Machine Learning arguably was Samuel s Checkers program that improved its game as it played along. It was also one of the earliest forms of parameterized learning, in which the scaffolding was already conceptualized but the details had to be filled in. This approach to learning has been the most successful, especially given that computing resources have been increasing by leaps and bounds. Such learning manifests itself under various names including Data Mining, Knowledge Discovery, Pattern Learning, and Association Rule Mining amongst others. The research in machine learning has seen an explosion in recent times due to various reasons. Computing power has multiplied hand in hand with increasing sophistication in the algorithms. An interesting example is the autonomous helicopter program at Stanford University that applies Reinforcement Learning techniques to control the vehicle , There has also been an explosion in the amount of data available with so much of the activity being computerised and going online. Shopping websites are busy analysing user clicks to try and figure out user behaviour in order to lure them to the add to shopping cart button. Every time one buys something online, the Website applies collaborative filtering to helpfully inform you what people who bought your product also bought. Most freely available Web services, like search engines, are busy too figuring out what the user is interested in, and assume that in future too, the user would be interested in similar things. They convince product manufactures that their advertisements can be targeted to specific groups that are more likely to be influenced. Big data is the current buzzword with everyone trying to analyse everything that happens on the World Wide Web, including blogs, news stories, and the vast amounts of textual data that grows rapidly. Another reason that Machine Learning has received considerable attenti