do . More recently, with new imaging techniques like PET (Positron Emission Tomography), MEG (MagnetoEncephaloGraphy) and CAT (Computer Aided Tomography), scientists have been able to map the different memory functions to brain regions. Figure 11.4 depicts this mapping of different kinds of memory functions, across both types, and how they are supported by specific regions of the brain as described in (Squire, 2004). As observed by Squire, over the last two centuries, the study of memory and the human brain has shifted from the fields of philosophy and psychology to biology. Emotional Skeletal Responses Responses conte atum i Neocortex FIGURE 11.4 The mapping of different memory functions to the regions of the brain. Figure adapted from (Squire, 2004). 11.2.2 Declarative Knowledge As humans, we often do things without conscious perception or conscious planning. This would be ascribed to procedural knowledge, which is a form of control knowledge a system learns. However, in classical or symbolic artificial intelligence, we are more concerned with the kind of knowledge that can be represented explicitly . Our focus in this book is on declarative knowledge. The simplest form of semantic knowledge is relations between entities of a domain. This is a well-studied form of knowledge representation with formal logic as the device both for representation and reasoning. The development of logic was more concerned with fidelity of reasoning; how does one make inferences that are irrefutable? In Chapter 12, we begin by studying the machinery of logical reasoning. However, reasoning is done over some symbolic representation and the symbols of something. Human beings have traditionally used natural language as a medium of representation as well as communication. In Chapter 13, we try and bridge the divide between logic and language and explore how concepts can be represented in logic. Given that our knowledge representation is about the world we are concerned with, and that the w