e of Individual Object since sets have no mass. Instances of Composite Object have two key slots, physical Extent and intangible Extent. For example, a person is a Composite Object whose physical Extent is his body and whose intangible Extent is his mind. Substance Substance is a subclass of Individual Object. Any subclass of Substance is something that retains its properties when it is cut up into smaller pieces. For example, Wood is a Substance.? A concept like Table34 can be an instance of both Wood (a Substance) and Table (an Individual Object). Intrinsic versus Extrinsic properties A property is intrinsic if when an object has that property all parts of the object also have that property. For example, color is an intrinsic property. Objects tend to inherit their intrinsic properties from Substances. Extrinsic properties include things like number-oflegs. Objects tend to inherit their extrinsic properties from Individual Objects. Event and Process An Event is anything with temporal extent, e.g., Walking. Process is a subclass of Event. If every temporal slice of an Event is essentially the same as the entire Event, then that Event is also a Process. For example, Walking is a Process, but Walking Two Miles is not. This relationship is analogous to Substance.and Individual Object. Slots Slot is a subclass of Intangible. There are many types of Slot. Bookkeeping Slots record such information as when a frame was created and by whom. Defining Slots refer not to properties of the frame but to properties of the object represented by the frame. Defining Slots are further divided into intensional, taxonomic, and extensional categories. Quantitative Slots are those which take on a scalar range of values, e.g., height, as opposed to gender. Time--Events can have temporal properties, such as duration and starts Before. CYC deals with two basic types of temporal measures: intervals, and sets of intervals. A number of basic interval properties, such as ends During, are denned