tate that one value is much larger than another, or that two values are unequal but very close to one another. Common Sense 411 ereiemueeeateee is to construct a sequence of discrete episodes that occur as qualitative variables change values. States are linked to other states by qualitative rules. Some rules are very general. For example, one simulation rule states that variables reach closer values before reaching further ones, and another rule states that changing from one value to another consumes some finite amount of time. Other rules, such as the rules governing the motion of objects through the air, are more specific. In systems that contain more than one object, rules must apply to all objects simultaneously. For example, consider an electrical device with many components, Because the components are connected, they influence one another. The constraint satisfaction technique (Chapters 3 and 14) is one efficient way of propagating a change in one component to other nearby components. Since combining qualitative values can lead to ambiguity, a qualitative simulation must sometimes split | batl-1] in air [ down into two or more possible paths. A network of ail : possible states and transitions for a qualitative system is called an envisionment. Figure 19.2 shows an [ball-4] on ground] down envisionment of the bouncing ball system of Fig. 19.1(a). This network allows a computer to reason about the behavior of the ball without recourse to [bait-1 numerical simulation. There are often many paths through an envisionment. Each path is called a history. Envisionments are useful in a number of applications. Most importantly, envisionments provide explanations for physical systems, and those explanations can be used to predict future behavior. In addition, if a system is an artificial one, such as a mechanical device, envisionments can be used to diagnose problems that occur when components fail to behave correctly. Envisionments can also be used to represent and/or re