ato-sauce ice-cream like chips cola dosa fish sambhar ice-cream dislike soup fiuit-juice rice brocolli moong-dal gaajar-halwa dislike momos cola rice bhindi sambhar gulab-jamun dislike chips cola tice fish kali-dal gaajar-halwa dislike salad ice-tea dosa alu-methi sambhar ice-cream like salad ice-tea Tice kadi moong-dal ice-cream like soup ice-rea paratha fish kali-dal gaajar-halwa like soup fruit-juice dosa Kadi fasam gaajar-halwa like moms cola Tice alu-methi tomato-sauce fruit-salad dislike soup fruit-juice pasta fish tomato-sauce fruit-salad like momos dosa broccoli rasam fruit-salad. like soup rice fish rasam gulab-jamun like chips roti alu-methi kali-dal ice-cream dislike salad dosa alu-methi rasam gaajarhalwa like momos roti bhindi kali-dal gulab-jamun dislike 13. Identify the Boolean functions in Figure Perceptrons to represent them. 18.33 and design (a) 10 e (b) 1 e 00 o . 0 O 1 0 1 1 Oo 1 l O (b) (d) 0 0 0 1 0 1 FIGURE 18.33 Four interesting Boolean logic functions. Identify the functions and simulate the progress of the Perceptron training algorithm on these training data sets. 14. Starting with a 0, 0, 0 weight vector, simulate the Perceptron training algorithm with the error correcting rule for the above four problems. Try out different values of 7. 15. Design a network of McCulloch-Pitts neurons to represent the XOR and EQ Boolean functions. 1 The notation ;6 says that the probability is parameterized by . 2 A notion that current day Indian pharmaceutical companies are trying hard to overturn. In the language of description logic studied in Chapter 14, the concept would be described as AND FILLS :Experience Medium FILLS :Education PhD FILLS :Hands-on Yes . The description logic describes the concepts in a similar conjunctive manner. As we will see, the conjunctive hypotheses are also restrictive in the concepts that they can describe . 4 We observed in several chapters that handling disjunction is a difficult proposition for reasoning. For example, Hor