nt SSS shifts attention to cluster A, as shown in the hand simulation below. 12 http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Hans Berliner. In practice, Hitech uses a fairly complicated evaluation using chess specific knowledge about moves that are checks, that threaten mate, or that start with certain kinds of captures. It was named after Deep Thought, a fictional computer in Douglas Adams series, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. The naming of chess computers has continued in this vein with Deep Blue, Deep Fritz, Deep Junior, etc. ( Deep here generally refers to the special ability to use multiple processing units.) .... In 1994, Deep Thought II won the North American Computer Chess Championship for the fifth time, with its rating estimated at around 2600. It was sponsored by IBM. Some engineers who designed Deep Thought, also worked in the design of Deep Thought II. Its algorithms were quite simple evaluation functions, but it could examine half a billion chess positions per move in tournament games, which is sufficient to reach a depth of 10 or 11 moves ahead in complex positions. Despite that, using the technique of singular extensions, it could also follow lines of forced moves that reach even further, which is how it once found checkmate in 37 moves. from http: en. wikipedia. org wiki Deep Thought 28chess computer 29 15 Rules of Go, Wikipedia, http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Rules of Go 16 Actually, the number in the bid is six less than the number of tricks bid for. The lowest bid is 1, for seven tricks, and the highest 7, for thirteen tricks. 17 Many a hilarious incident has occurred on the bridge table because the partner has forgotten the encoded meaning and taken the bid at face value. 18 http: www.jackbridge.com eindex.htm 19 http: www.bridgebaron.com home.shtml 20 http: www.bridgebaron.com home.shtml 21 http: www. ny-bridge.com allevy computerbridge results2007.html 22 http: www.jackbridge.com eindex.htm 23 Scrabble refers to the SCRABBLE brand word game, a registered 