ossible concepts in terms of seven individual characteristics. The root of the taxonomy is padartha (the meaning of the word), or any word that represents a concept. The concepts can be further specialized by what we call slots in the contest of frames. These are seven in number dravya (substance), guna (quality), karma (activity), samanya (generality), visesa (particularity) and samavaya (inherence). and abhava (non-existence). These are further categorized. There are nine classes of substance prthvi (earth), ap (water), tejas (fire), vayu (air), akasa (sky), kala (time), dik (space), atman (self) and manas (mind). And seventeen classes of qualities ripa (colour), rasa (taste), gandha (smell), sparsa (touch), samkhya (number), parimana (size), prthaktva (inidividuality), samyoga (conjunction), vibhaga (disjunction), paratva (priority), aparatva (posteriority), buddhi (knowledge), sukha (pleasure), duhkha (pain), iccha (desire), dvesa (aversion) and prayatna (effort). The following were added later, gurutva (heaviness), dravatva (fluidity), sneha (viscosity), dharma (merit), adharma (demerit), Sabda (sound) and samkasra (faculty). The interested reader is referred to the (Kak, 2003) and (Narayana, 2007a; 2007b) for a deeper analysis of the representation of concepts. 14.3.1 Procedures in a Frame System The principal advantage the frame system brings to reasoning is the savings in computation because of the explicit connectedness of related concepts (frames). Consider the inference that one may want to make that dogs are living creatures. In FOL, the relevant relations would be expressed as rules, perhaps as follows. Wx (Dog(x) DAnimal(x)) Vx (Animal(x) DLivingCreature(x)) Using these rules in forward or backward chaining requires the mention of an individual about who this inference is being made, Dog(fido25) One can then go on to infer that LivingCreature(fido25) is also true. Classical logic also allows us to use the Hypothetical Syllogism rule to infer, Vx (Dog(x