erent variable. Skolemization. the replacement of existentially quantified variables, with Skolem functions and deletion of the respective quantifiers, is then accomplished as follows: I. If the first (leftmost) quantifier in an expression is an existential quantifier. replace all occurrences of the variable it quantifies with an arbitrary constant not appearing elsewhere in the expression and delete the quantifier. This same procedure Sec. 4.5 Conversion to Clausal Form 63 should be followed for all other existential quantifiers not preceded by a universal quantifier. in each case, using different constant symbols in the substitution. 2. For each existential quantifier that is preceded by one or more universal quantifiers (is within the scope of one or more universal quantifiers), replace all occurrences of the existentially quantified variable by a function symbol not appearing elsewhere in the expression The argumentsassigned to the function should match all the variables appearing in each universal quantifier which precedes the existential quantifier. This existential quantifier should then be deleted. The same process should be repeated for each remaining existential quantifier using a different function symbol and choosing function arguments that correspond to all universally quantified variables that precede the existentially quantified variable being replaced. An example will help to clarify this process. Given the espresslon u Vv Vx 3y P(f(u), v, IC -. Q(u.v.y) the Skolem form is determined as Vv Vx P(f(a).v.x,g(v,X)) - Q(a,vgtv,d). In making the substitutions, it should be noted that the variable u appearing after the first existential quantifier has been replaced in the second expression by the arbitrary constant a. This constant did not appear elsewhere in the first expression. The variable y has been replaced by the function symbol g having the variables r' and x as arguments. since both of these variables are universally quantified to the left of the e