ormation about all the objects in the domain in terms of binary valued properties. The formal context has a yes or no answer for every property for every object. The formal context can be simply represented by an incidence matrix for a bipartite graph between objects and properties. Each edge from an object links it to a property that holds for the object. Let K (G, M, R) be a formal context defined by, G the set of objects (from the German word Gegenstande) Mthe set of properties (from Merkmale), and R G Mis a relation, such that g,m R iff object g has the property m The following table depicts a context in which objects, labelled A-F, have properties labelled 1-4 indicated by a cross in the relevant place. Table 14.1 An example context. The objects labelled A-F have properties labelled 1-4, as shown in the table. An X says that the object in that row has the property in that column - Properties Objects a 2 3 4 A B xX x Cc x x x D x IE, x F xX Given the context K, a set of formal concepts is defined as follows (Kr tzsch and Ganter, 2009). Let att and obj be two functions on the power sets of G and M, att: 2 2M and obj: 2M 26 For a set of objects O G, the set O' of corresponding properties is defined as, O' att(O) me M g,m R for all g O The set O' is the set of properties associated with the set of objects O. That is, each element in O has each property in O'. Likewise, for a chosen set of properties P, we can define the corresponding set of objects, all of whom have all the properties. P obj(P) ge G g,m R for all m P The pair C (O, P) is a formal concept iff, O P'andP 0O' Then O is called the extension of concept C and P the intension of the concept29. O ext(C) and P int(C) A formal concept is not a category, but represents an understanding of the given data of objects and their properties. Formal concepts are mathematical constructs and not formal, logical entities (Wille, 2005). A concept is a set of objects which share some properties. Both the sets, objects and