mble up the colours of the cube, and the goal is to get the faces back into one colour again. In the seventies, when the Hungarian architect Erno Rubik invented the puzzle, it became a rage and many people could be found trying to solve it obsessively. Problem Solving f Search Knowledge PY Ontology Domain Semantics Experience , , g Model Based Reasoning Memory Based Reasoning Figure 15.1 Model based and memory based reasoning. The trial-and-error methods would fail more often that not, because the state space is huge, containing about 4.3 x 1019 states. More importantly, it has not been possible to construct a heuristic function that will monotonically reduce on the solution path. The intuition of assigning better values to states with more cubelets of the same colour together, soon leads to local maxima. Consequently, most human solvers use a peak-topeak approach described in Chapter 3. In a matter of a few years, systematic solutions were found and learnt (memorized) by people, so that even young children knew how to solve it. Currently, the issue in human competitions is how fast you can solve it, and champions do it in a matter of seconds. This example illustrates two contrasting advantages of the two approaches. When a solution or a solution method has been learnt, knowledge acts like a sword cutting a path through the combinatorially exploding number of possibilities. On the other hand, if a solution is not known in advance, only a first principle approach can find one, but the problem solver has to sift through a large number of combinations. Figure 15.3 depicts the role of knowledge in identifying a solution amongst the many possibilities that lie ahead. It depicts a solution or a plan being retrieved from the memory and used to synthesize future actions. Knowledge, from this perspective, is the carry-forward from the past to the future. Memory is the seat of knowledge. FIGURE 15.2 The Rubik s cube. One can identify three different ontological forms of knowl