 information available, the more efficient the search process will be. Such methods are known as informed search methods. They often depend on the use of heuristic information. In this section, we examine search strategies based on the use of some problem domain information, and in particular, on the use of heuristic search functions. Heuristic Information Information about the problem (the nature of the states, the cost of transforming irom one state to another, the promise of taking a certain path, and the characteristic of the goals) can sometimes be used to help guide the search more efficiently. This information can often be expressed in the form of a heuristic evaluation function a function of the nodes n and/or the goals g. Recall that a heuristic is a rule of thumb or judgmental technique that leads to a solution some of the time but provides no guarantee of success. It may in fact end in failure. Heuristics play an important role in search strategies because of the poncntial nature of most problems. They help to reduc' the number of alternatives from an exponential number to a polynomial number and, thereby, obtain a solution Sec. 9.5 Informed Search 179 in a tolerable amount of time. When exhaustive search is impractical, it is necessary to compromise for a constrained search which eliminates many paths but offers the promise of success some of the time. Here, success may be considered to be tindini an optimal solution a fair proportion of the time or just finding good solutions much of the time. In this regard, any policy which uses as little search effort as possible to find any qualified goal has been called a satijicing poll(-r. Consider for example, the traveling salesman problem described above. A simple heuristic for choosing the next city at any point in a tour is one which picks the nearest unvisited neighbor. This policy gives no guarantee 01 an optimal solution, but its solutions are often good, and the time required is only 0012. Likewise, for 