presented several fixed strategies breadth-first, greedy best-first, and so on that
have been designed by computer scientists. Could anagent learn how to search better? The
METALEVELSTATE answerisyes,andthemethodrestsonanimportantconceptcalledthemetalevelstatespace.
SPACE
Eachstateinametalevelstatespacecaptures theinternal (computational) stateofaprogram
OBJECT-LEVELSTATE that is searching in an object-level state space such as Romania. For example, the internal
SPACE stateofthe A algorithmconsistsofthecurrentsearchtree. Eachactioninthemetalevelstate
space is acomputation step that alters the internal state; forexample, each computation step in A expandsaleafnodeandaddsitssuccessors tothetree. Thus,Figure3.24,whichshows
asequence of larger and larger search trees, can beseen asdepicting apath inthe metalevel
statespacewhereeachstateonthepathisanobject-level searchtree.
Now,thepathin Figure3.24hasfivesteps,includingonestep,theexpansionof Fagaras,
that is not especially helpful. Forharder problems, there will be many such missteps, and a
METALEVEL metalevellearningalgorithmcanlearnfromtheseexperiencestoavoidexploringunpromis-
LEARNING
ing subtrees. Thetechniques used forthis kind of learning are described in Chapter21. The
goal of learning is to minimize the total cost of problem solving, trading off computational
expenseandpathcost.
3.6 HEURISTIC FUNCTIONS
In this section, we look at heuristics for the 8-puzzle, in order to shed light on the nature of
heuristics ingeneral.
The 8-puzzle was one of the earliest heuristic search problems. As mentioned in Sec-
tion 3.2, the object of the puzzle is toslide the tiles horizontally orvertically into the empty
spaceuntiltheconfiguration matchesthegoalconfiguration (Figure3.28).
Theaveragesolutioncostforarandomlygenerated8-puzzle instanceisabout22steps.
The branching factor is about 3. (When the empty tile is in the middle, four moves are
possible; when it is in a corner, two; and when it is along an edge, three.) This means
t