, Pizza Hut Saravana Bhavan r i Seven Samurai The Matrix Seen : Bhuvan Shome Figure 6.2 An AND-OR tree. And arcs represent subproblems to be solved individually. Notice that the solution is subtree rather than a path. The semantics of an AND arc is that all the connecting edges have to be traversed. The three edges in the figure together can be thought of as a hyper-edge. Traditionally, such edges are known as AND edges, because all individual edges have to be traversed. In contrast, the other edges (the kind that we have been dealing with all along in the preceding chapters), are known as OR edges. This is because one could go down one edge, or the next one, or the next one. If a node has only an AND edge coming out of it, we will call it an AND node. Likewise, if it has only OR edges coming out, we will call it an OR node. In general, if we have a graph with both kinds of nodes, we can always convert them into graphs with pure AND and OR nodes by an addition of extra nodes, as illustrated in Figure 6.3. These search spaces are also known as goal trees, (Charniak and McDermott, 1985) because they break up a goal (problem) into subgoals (subproblems). We also call them AND OR trees graphs or AO trees graphs. G) oy A f , 1 B iT - A) mit mn (a a) (c) Ba i VAP ABI AC) a (B) (c) Figure 6.3 An AO graph with mixed nodes can be converted into a graph with pure AND and OR nodes. Since one has to traverse all the edges at an AND node, the solution obtained will not be a path, but a subtree (or a subgraph) in the AND OR search space. This is illustrated as solid arcs in Figure 6.2 for the AND OR problem formulated above. Observe that one can still use a depth first search approach, with the modification that at each AND node, more than one search will be spawned. In the above example, these will be three searches. The first will search below the node labelled Outing, the second below the node labelled Movie, and the third below the node Dinner. But since they will search inde