s it
expects towin. Since players bid based on the cards they hold, the other players learn more
abouttheprobability ofeachdeal. Takingthisintoaccount indeciding howtoplaythehand
istricky, forthereasons mentioned inourdescription of Kriegspiel: players maybidinsuch
awayastominimize theinformation conveyed totheiropponents. Evenso, the approach is
quiteeffectiveforbridge, asweshowin Section5.7.
The strategy described in Equations 5.1 and 5.2 is sometimes called averaging over
clairvoyance because it assumes that the game will become observable to both players im-
mediately after the first move. Despite its intuitive appeal, the strategy can lead one astray.
Considerthefollowingstory:
Day 1: Road A leads to a heap of gold; Road B leads to a fork. Take the left fork and
you llfindabiggerheapofgold,buttaketherightforkandyou llberunoverbyabus.
Day2: Road A leadsto aheapofgold; Road Bleadstoa fork. Takethe rightforkand
you llfindabiggerheapofgold,buttaketheleftforkandyou llberunoverbyabus.
Day 3: Road A leads to a heap of gold; Road B leads to a fork. One branch of the
forkleads to a biggerheap of gold, but take the wrong forkand you llbe hit by a bus.
Unfortunatelyyoudon tknowwhichforkiswhich.
Averagingoverclairvoyanceleadstothefollowingreasoning: on Day1,Bistherightchoice;
on Day2,Bistheright choice; on Day3,thesituation isthesameaseither Day1or Day2,
so Bmuststillbetherightchoice.
Now we can see how averaging overclairvoyance fails: it does not consider the belief
statethattheagentwillbeinafteracting. Abeliefstateoftotalignoranceisnotdesirable,es-
pecially whenonepossibility iscertain death. Becauseitassumesthateveryfuturestatewill
automatically beoneofperfectknowledge, theapproach neverselectsactionsthatgatherin-
formation(likethefirstmovein Figure5.13);norwillitchooseactionsthathideinformation
from the opponent or provide information to a partner because it assumes that they already
knowtheinformation; anditwillneverbluffinpoker,4 because itassumestheopponent can
BLU