 Language can evolve as the experiences that we want to communicate about evolve. The Problem: There are lots of ways to say the same thing: Mary was born on October 11. Mary's birthday is October 11. The Good Side: When you know 4 lot, facts imply each other. Language is intended to be used by agents who know a lot. Fig. 15.1 Features of Language That Make It Both Difficult and Useful In Chapter 14 we described some of the issues that arise in speech understanding, and in Section 21.2.2 we return to them in more detail. In this chapter, though, we concentrate on written language processing (usually called simply natural language processing). Throughout this discussion of natural language processing, the focus is on English. This happens to be convenient and turns out to be where much of the work in the field has occurred. But the major issues we address are common to all natural languages, In fact, the techniques we discuss are particularly important in the task of translating from one natural language to another. Natural language processing includes both understanding and generation, as well as other tasks such as multilingual translation. In this chapter we focus on understanding, although in Section 15.5 we will provide some references to work in these other areas. 15.1 INTRODUCTION Recall that in the last chapter we defined understanding as the process of mapping from an input form into a more immediately useful form. It is this view of understanding that we pursue throughout this chapter. But it is useful to point out here that there is a formal sense in which a language can be defined simply as a set of strings without reference to any world being described or task to be performed. Although some of the ideas that have come out of this formal study of languages can be exploited in parts of the understanding process, they are only the beginning. To get the overall picture, we need to think of language as a pair (source language, Natural Language Processing 287 