case, the idea is quite staggering. http: explorebiodiversity.com Mexico Pages Habitats species.htm, accessed May 2012. The reader may compare this with a definition of a constraint satisfaction problem defined in Chapter 9. 30 There is a temptation though to think of P(NewToy, Happy) P(Happy NewToy) P(NewToy) as being similar to Modus Ponens. But the reader must remember that this yields only a value of 0.4 because we cannot say that P(NewToy) 1. 31 The author recalls with considerable relief the accurate diagnosis of a dear one by an experienced doctor, simply after hearing the major symptoms, even while a battery of tests were being conducted in a major hospital without success. 32 See http. www.computing.surrey.ac.uk ai PROFILE mycin.html Expert 33 In Pearl's book, written in 1988, you hear this on the radio. 34 Notwithstanding the so called Butterfly Effect in Chaos Theory that says that the flutter of a butterfly s wings in China could affect the weather patterns in New York. 35 One could just as well have written Poxy,....X7) Proxpixe.-.X1) : P (X6lX5 ... X4) ... Prox) Prx,) or in fact chosen the variables in any other order. 36 See Exercise 13 of Chapter 10 for a complex version of this game. 37 Named after the Russian mathematician, Andrey Andreyevich Markov (1856 - 1922). 38 We will use SSP as a short form for SSP MDP. 39 Legend has it that Robert Bruce, who was fighting for the freedom of Scotland, was inspired by watching a spider weaving her web who after failing for six times to throw a thread across a divide, persisted, and succeeded the seventh time. 40 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Bellman equation 41 Andrey Kolobov, personal communication. 42 The names have been withheld and are anyway fictitious. 28 29 Machine Learning with Ashish Tendulkar Chapter 18 ir the preceding chapters, we have looked at approaches to problem solving; both from first principles and by means of exploiting knowledge and experience. Solving problems by first principles requ