aits using the corners of their parts. Some simply wag an appendage in the air to rock back and forth in just the right manner to move forward. A number of more complex creatures emerged that push or pull themselves along, inchworm style. Others use one or more leglike appendages to successfully crawl or walk. Some hopping creatures even emerged that raise and lower armlike structures to bound along at fairly high speeds. Fe ZR te Ley Lo BS FIGURE 4.23 Different designs evolved for walking creatures. Figure from (Sims, 1994). The central theme in evolutionary or emergent systems is to provide the basic building blocks needed for the full system, and then letting some kind of recombination and selection process work on a population. While many interesting systems have been produced, the building blocks for most have to be carefully engineered. Nature, on the other hand, has used this process extensively from scratch. We can even say that Nature is this process of assimilating complex systems through natural selection from a population of designs. Nature has been so successful at it that humans have wondered at the world around us and concluded that it must be the work of a master craftsman, a super being. Beginning with the work of Charles Darwin, only in the recent past have arguments for the natural evolution of our world been accepted (see (Dawkins, 1986, 1996)). Initially, the rate of change must have been very slow. To quote (Hoffmeyer, 1994a) ... evolution spent two billion years to create that enormously complicated web of chemical habits which we call the eukaryotic cell, and the genome would not work if it were not put into the context of the historically appropriated competence of that cell. Ecosystems would not be stable were it not for the millions of semiotic processes built on habits which themselves were formerly built on other habits. And the human brain would not function without the historically developed patterns of communication between many billi