he first expression. The variable y has been replaced by the function symbol g having the variables r' and x as arguments. since both of these variables are universally quantified to the left of the existential quantifier for y. Replacement of y by an arbitrary function with arguments v and x is justified on the basis that Y. following v and .v. may be functionally dependent on them and, if so, the arbitrary function g can account for this dependency. The complete procedure can now be given to convert any FOPL sentence into clausal form. Clausal Conversion Procedure Step I. Eliminate all implication and equivalency connectives (Use P V Q in place of P . Q and (P V Q) & (Q V P) in place of P Q. Step 2. Move all negations in to immediately precede an atom use P in place of TP). and De Morgan's laws. 3t -F[,vl in place of (Vx) Fl.fl and V.s F lvi in place of (3x) F [v]). Step 3. Rename variables., if necessary, so that all quantifiers have different variable assignments; that is. rename variables so that variables bound by one quantifier are not the same as variab!s bound by a different quantifier. For example. in the (3v (Q(x)) rename the second "dummy" variable .v shich expression Vx (P(x) . is bound by the existential quantifier to be a different variable, say y. to give Vv (P(.r) - (]y Q(y))). 64 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 Step 4. Skolemize by replacing all existentially quantified variables with Skolem functions as described above, and deleting the corresponding existential quantifiers. Step 5. Move all universal quantifiers to the left of the expression and put the expression on the right into CNF. Step 6. Eliminate all universal quantifiers and conjunctions since they are retained implicitly. The resulting expressions (the expressions previously connected by the conjunctions) are clauses and the set of such expression is said to be in clausal form. As an example of this process, let us convert the expression 3x Vy (Vz P(fx),y,z) -. (3u Q(x.u) & 3v R(y.v)