 are widely used in tropical high temperature and dry environments. The same could be extended for a wide range of applications. The following description explains how fuzzy logic works and how we model a system to use the concept. The logic explained herein is said to use the Mamadani style of fuzzy inference processing. 22.5.1 Fuzzy Room Cooler We assume the conventional room cooler implemented using a fan encased in a box with wool or hay that is continuously moistened by a trickle of water. A motorized pump controls the rate of flow of water required for moistening. Two scnsors mounted inside the cooler or in the room at strategic locations measure the fan motor speed and the temperature within the room. The fan speed could be varied either by a knob by the user or could be designed to change based on an appropriate parameter sensed (humidity, for instance). The basic aim here is to achieve a smooth control and also save on water, a precious resource. Figure 22.1 shows a typical setup. Waiter Reservoir Motor Pump Fuzzy Controller Temperature and Fan Speed Sensor Fig. 22.1 A Sectional View of a Fuzzy Room Cooler For simplicity we assume that to maintain the temperature of the room, only the rate of flow of water needs to be controlled based on the speed of the fan and the temperature. With this infrastructure we move to design the fuzzy engine to control this system. Fuzzy regions Two parameters (viz. temperature and pressure) decide the water flow rate. We define fuzzy terms for temperature as Cold, Cool, Moderate, Warm and Hot while those for fan speed (measured in rotations per ininute) as Slack, Low, Medium, Brisk, Fast. Thus temperature in the room could be defined as Cold or Cool or by any of the corresponding fuzzy linguistic variables. Likewise, the fan speed too could be defined by any of the latter variables. The output of the system, which is the flow-rate of the water controlled by the motorized pump, could also be defined accordingly by yet another s