 Learning 775
1. Everyconsistenthypothesis(otherthanthoseintheboundarysets)ismorespecificthan
somememberofthe G-set,andmoregeneral thansomememberof the S-set. (Thatis,
there are no stragglers left outside.) This follows directly from the definitions of S
and G. If there were a straggler h, then it would have to be no more specific than any
member of G, in which case it belongs in G; or no more general than any member of
S,inwhichcaseitbelongsin S.
2. Everyhypothesis morespecific than somememberofthe G-setand moregeneral than
somememberofthe S-setisaconsistent hypothesis. (Thatis, there areno holes be-
tween the boundaries.) Any h between S and G must reject all the negative examples
rejectedbyeachmemberof G(becauseitismorespecific),andmustacceptallthepos-
itiveexamplesacceptedbyanymemberof S (becauseitismoregeneral). Thus,hmust
agree with all the examples, and therefore cannot be inconsistent. Figure 19.5 shows
the situation: there are no known examples outside S but inside G, so any hypothesis
inthegapmustbeconsistent.
We have therefore shown that if S and G are maintained according to their definitions, then
they provide a satisfactory representation ofthe version space. Theonly remaining problem
is how to update S and G for a new example (the job of the VERSION-SPACE-UPDATE
function). This may appear rather complicated at first, but from the definitions and with the
helpof Figure19.4,itisnottoohardtoreconstruct thealgorithm. G 1 S G 2 1 Figure 19.5 The extensions of the members of G and S. No known examples lie in
betweenthetwosetsofboundaries.
Weneedtoworryaboutthemembers S and G ofthe S-and G-sets. Foreachone,the
i i
newexamplemaybeafalsepositiveorafalsenegative.
1. Falsepositive for S : Thismeans S istoo general, but there are no consistent special-
i i
izationsof S (bydefinition), sowethrowitoutofthe S-set.
i
2. Falsenegativefor S : Thismeans S istoospecific,sowereplaceitbyallitsimmediate
i i
generalizations, provided theyaremorespecificthansomememberof G.
3.