 models, every valid sentence
is logically equivalent to True. What good are valid sentences? From our definition of
DEDUCTION entailment, wecanderivethedeductiontheorem,whichwasknowntotheancient Greeks:
THEOREM
Foranysentences and , ifandonlyifthesentence( )isvalid.
(Exercise7.5asksforaproof.) Hence, wecandecide if bychecking that( )is
trueineverymodel whichisessentiallywhattheinference algorithmin Figure7.10does 250 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
orby proving that ( ) isequivalent to True. Conversely, the deduction theorem states
thateveryvalidimplication sentence describes alegitimateinference.
The final concept we will need is satisfiability. A sentence is satisfiable if it is true
SATISFIABILITY
in, orsatisfied by, some model. Forexample, the knowledge base given earlier, (R R 1 2
R R R ), is satisfiable because there are three models in which it is true, as shown
3 4 5
in Figure 7.9. Satisfiability can be checked by enumerating the possible models until one is
found that satisfies the sentence. The problem of determining the satisfiability of sentences
inpropositional logic the SA Tproblem was thefirstproblem proved tobe NP-complete.
SAT
Many problems in computer science are really satisfiability problems. For example, all the
constraint satisfaction problems in Chapter 6 ask whether the constraints are satisfiable by
someassignment.
Validity and satisfiability are of course connected: is valid iff is unsatisfiable;
contrapositively, issatisfiable iff isnotvalid. Wealsohavethefollowingusefulresult: ifandonlyifthesentence ( )isunsatisfiable.
Proving from by checking the unsatisfiability of ( ) corresponds exactly to the
REDUCTIOAD standard mathematical proof technique of reductio ad absurdum (literally, reduction to an
ABSURDUM
absurdthing ). Itisalsocalledproofbyrefutationorproofbycontradiction. Oneassumesa
REFUTATION
sentence tobefalseandshowsthatthisleadstoacontradiction withknownaxioms . This
CONTRADICTION
contradiction isexactlywhatismeantbysayingthatthesentenc