 that are used more often tend to strengthen. If two neurons on either side of a synapse are excited simultaneously then the strength of the synapse is increased. This was first postulated by Donald Hebb (1949) and is known as Hebbian Learning in his honour. The interesting thing about Hebbian learning is that it is entirely joca in nature. Learning happens solely on the basis of events, only in the immediate neighbourhood of the neuron. Learning happens via a time dependent mechanism in which the exact times of occurrence of the signal on both sides of the synapse are important. If the two signals happen within a short time interval then the synapse is strengthened. Conversely, if the two signals happen asynchronously then the synapse is weakened. Competition A neuron communicates with other neurons by sending a signal down its axon (see Figure 4.20) and across a synapse to the dendrite of a target neuron. This process consumes energy and other resources which are limited. This is addressed by a process of competitive learning in which different neurons compete with each other to respond to an input; and only one neuron or one neuron per group, the one that is fittest, becomes active at a time. In competitive learning, different sets of neurons learn to respond to different input patterns, and in this way become feature detectors. Cooperation While competition selects neurons that react to a given pattern, cooperation between the winner neurons follows, in which sets of neurons learn to react to distinct input patterns. Such cooperation happens between lateral interactions between groups of excited neurons. Structural Information Learning can happen only when there is redundant information in an input signal, represented by structure and correlation between neighbouring signal samples. This structure represents some kind of continuity in the domain that generates the signal, thus creating the possibility of identifying components that are different from other compo