lilei (1564-1642) showed that one ca tion by reasoning with geometric representations. He also believed that the sounds we hear, and th , are created in reality by tiny particles which had no direct relation to the smell or sound we percei ish philosopher Thomas Hobbes (1588-1679), who Haugeland calls the The Grandfather of J thinking as manipulation of symbols. Hobbes believed that thinking was like talking, only that it h ig or the use of language is essentially a symbol manipulation activity. A sentence like Akira ate an ly a symbolic representation which the reader has to interpret. Each word is a symbol struc es, or stands for, something else. The same can be said in other symbol systems Akira a einen , saeb khaya , or Akira comi una manzana . Each word holds some (hopefully shared) meanin and the listener. And our processing of language is based on the understanding of that shared me one could process symbols without understanding the intended meaning, just like the carrier of omputer is basically a symbol processing unit, at the heart of which two specific voltage levels star ; Zero and one. All other sophisticated applications, like the word processor on which this document use compound structures made up of ones and zeros to symbolize more complex concepts, and p Nout understanding what they stand for. An interesting issue about intelligence was raised by the ier Searle, in the Chinese room thought experiment (Searle, 1980), in which he questions whethe ng processing symbols without understanding the meaning behind them can be intelligent . From ce, we know that when a child learns to add two numbers, the procedure actually learnt is a symbol ( tion procedure (add the least significant digits, take the carry, and so on). Its association with the re umbers has to be learnt separately. Many older students learn to solve complex mathematical e 1e foggiest idea of what is going on behind the symbol manipulation. But they do follow the rules t 1d do produce corr