achines, including virtually all of those that have been raised in the half-century
sincehispaperappeared. Wewilllookatsomeofthem.
26.1.1 The argument from disability
The argument from disability makesthe claim that amachine can neverdo X. Asexam-
plesof X,Turingliststhefollowing:
Bekind,resourceful,beautiful,friendly,haveinitiative,haveasenseofhumor,tellright
from wrong, make mistakes, fall in love, enjoy strawberries and cream, make someone
fallin lovewith it, learnfromexperience,use wordsproperly,bethe subjectofitsown
thought,haveasmuchdiversityofbehaviorasman,dosomethingreallynew.
1022 Chapter 26. Philosophical Foundations
In retrospect, some of these are rather easy we re all familiar with computers that make
mistakes. We are also familiar with a century-old technology that has had a proven ability
to make someone fall in love with it the teddy bear. Computer chess expert David Levy
predicts that by 2050 people will routinely fall in love with humanoid robots (Levy, 2007).
Asforarobotfallinginlove,thatisacommonthemeinfiction,1 buttherehasbeenonlylim-
itedspeculation aboutwhetheritisinfactlikely(Kimetal.,2007). Programsdoplaychess,
checkers and other games; inspect parts on assembly lines, steer cars and helicopters; diag-
nose diseases; and do hundreds of other tasks as well as or better than humans. Computers
have made small but significant discoveries in astronomy, mathematics, chemistry, mineral-
ogy, biology, computer science, and other fields. Each of these required performance at the
levelofahumanexpert.
Given what we now know about computers, it is not surprising that they do well at
combinatorial problems such as playing chess. Butalgorithms also perform athuman levels
on tasks that seemingly involve human judgment, oras Turing put it, learning from experi-
ence and the ability to tell right from wrong. As far back as 1955, Paul Meehl (see also
Groveand Meehl, 1996) studied the decision-making processes of trained experts atsubjec-
tive tasks such as pr