 Statement of the goal concept to be learned, 2. At least one positive training example of the concept, 3. Domain theory, which relates to the concept and the training example, and 4. Criteria for concept operationality. The notion of operationality in item 4 requires some explanation. We say a procedure is operational if, for some agent and task, the procedure can be applied by the agent to solve the task. Thus, if the concept to be learned is one related to the recognition of pencils, operational criteria in this case would be given as a structural definition which could serve to uniquely identify pencils. If the concept is related to the function or use of pencils, the operational criteria would be given. as a functional definition. 427 Sec. 20.4 Explanation-Based Learning The objective of EBL is to formulate a generalized explanation of the goal concept. The explanation should prove how the training example satisfies the concept definition in terms of the domain theory. The EBL method constructs an explanation of the concept based on the given example in terms of the domain theory. The explanation is a deductive proof of how the example satisfies the goal concept definition. Once an explanation has been developed, It is generalized by regressing the goal concept through the explanation structure. We illustrate these ideas with an example given by Mitchell. Keller, and Kedar-Cabelli (1986). The concept to be learned in this example is the conditions under which it is safe to stack on. item on top of another item. The training example is given as a description of a pair of objects; one object is a box which is stacked on top of the other object, an end table. The domain knowledge needed by the system consists of some structural attributes and relationships between ph .,ical objects such as volume, density, weight, lighter-than, fragile, and so on. The operational criteria in this case requires that the concept definition be expressed in terms of the predicates use