 R is transitive, add LP - LLP. This states that if P is true in all w, accessible from some iv,, then P is true in all wk accessible from iv,. LIi-t III LJ A.flexive Transitive Synwnetric Equivalenc. FIgure 5.5 Accessibility relation properties. Sec..b5 .. Modal and Temporal t.oglcs. If R is symmetric, then add P ' LMP. This states that if P is true in w,, then MP is true in all w1 accessible from Wj. If R is an equivalence relation, add LP -, P and MP - LMP. To obtain a formal system from any of the above, it is necessary to add appropriate inference rules. Many of the inference rules defined in Chapter 4 would apply here as well, (modus ponens, universal substitution, and others). Thus, for a typical modal system based on propositional logic, the following axioms could apply: A. The basic propositional logic assumptions (Chapter 4) including modus ponens, B. Addition of the operators L (necessity) and M (possibility), and C. Some typical modal axioms such as 1. MP = LP (possible P. is equivalent to the statement it is not necessary that not P), 2. L(P - Q) - (LP - LQ) (if it is necessary that P implies Q. then if Pis necessary, Q is necessary), 3. LP -* P (if P is necessary then P), and 4. LP - LLP (if P is necessary, then it is necessary that P is necessary). Axioms C3 and C4 provide the reflexivity and transitivity access relations, respectively. If other relations are desired, appropriate axioms would be added to those given above; for example, for the symmetric access relation P - LMP would be added. As an example of a proof in modal logic, suppose some assertions are added to a knowledge base for which the above assumptions and axioms apply: D. Assertions: 1. (sam is a man) 2. M(sam is a child) 3. L((sam is a child) -+ L(sam is a child)] 4. L[(sam is a man) - (sam is a child)] A simple proof that (sam is a child) would proceed as follows. From C3 and D4 infer that (sam is a man) -. (sam is a child) From Dl and El using modus ponens conclude (sam is a child) 