from financial database) Poorly understood domains where humans may not have enough explicit knowledge to develop effective algorithms (for example, human face recognition from images) Domains where programs must adapt to the dynamically changing conditions The basic idea in machine learning is to learn from data. For example, if a traveller from space were to land in one of our forests, she would look at the surroundings and form a concept of a tree which has a trunk, branches and green leaves. The set of instances that are used to learn the concept is called the training data or training samples. At a very broad level, ML techniques can be categorized into two types namely, (i) Supervised Learning, and (ii) Unsupervised Learning. These techniques differ in the way training examples are specified to the learning algorithm. In case of supervised learning, training examples are specified along with their class labels. On the other hand, the class labels are not supplied along with training examples in unsupervised learning. For example, a spam filter is trained by supervised learning techniques. Its training data would contain emails along with their respective labels: spam or not spam. These labels may have been provided by users who would have marked some emails as spam. The foremost important element of the learning system is the training experience. We refer to it as training data and denote it by the training set X, which consists of a set of examples with or without the associated label. Each example x; is represented using a set of features or attributes, which are specified by domain experts. Let d be the total number of features. In other words, x; is a d dimensional vector and X contains n such vectors. Each feature is either discrete or continuous, based on the values it takes. The discrete feature takes a value from a finite set of possible values. For example, a feature may take one of the two values from the set: yes, no . The continuous feature takes a