RESOLUTION iscomplete.
RESOLUTION Todothis,weintroducetheresolutionclosure RC(S)ofasetofclauses S,whichistheset
CLOSURE
of all clauses derivable by repeated application of the resolution rule to clauses in S ortheir
derivatives. The resolution closure is what PL-RESOLUTION computes as the final value of
thevariableclauses. Itiseasytoseethat RC(S)mustbefinite,becausethereareonlyfinitely
manydistinctclausesthatcanbeconstructed outofthesymbols P ,...,P thatappearin S.
1 k
(Noticethatthiswouldnotbetruewithoutthefactoring stepthatremovesmultiplecopiesof
literals.) Hence, PL-RESOLUTION alwaysterminates.
The completeness theorem for resolution in propositional logic is called the ground
GROUND
resolution theorem:
RESOLUTION
THEOREM
If a set of clauses is unsatisfiable, then the resolution closure of those clauses
containstheemptyclause.
This theorem is proved by demonstrating its contrapositive: if the closure RC(S) does not
256 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
contain the empty clause, then S is satisfiable. In fact, we can construct a model for S with
suitable truthvaluesfor P ,...,P . Theconstruction procedure isasfollows:
1 k
Forifrom1tok, Ifaclausein RC(S)containstheliteral P andallitsotherliteralsarefalseunder
i
theassignment chosenfor P 1 ,...,P i 1 ,thenassignfalse to P i . Otherwise,assign true to P .
i
This assignment to P ,...,P is a model of S. To see this, assume the opposite that, at
1 k
some stage i in the sequence, assigning symbol P causes some clause C to become false.
i
Forthis tohappen, itmust bethe case that all the other literals in C mustalready have been
falsifiedbyassignments to P 1 ,...,P i 1 . Thus,C mustnowlooklikeeither(false false false P )orlike(false false false P ). Ifjustoneofthesetwoisin RC(S),then
i i
the algorithm will assign the appropriate truth value to P to make C true, so C can only be
i
falsifiedifbothoftheseclausesarein RC(S). Now,since RC(S)isclosedunderresolution,
itwillcontaintheresolventofthesetwoclauses,andthatresolventwillhaveallo