uationsastheresultsofactionsinthewumpusworld.
involving sthatdescribes thepreconditions. Anexamplefromthewumpusworldsays
thatitispossible toshootiftheagentisaliveandhasanarrow:
Alive(Agent,s) Have(Agent,Arrow,s) Poss(Shoot,s) Each fluent is described with a successor-state axiom that says what happens to the
fluent, depending on what action is taken. This is similar to the approach we took for
propositional logic. Theaxiomhastheform
Actionispossible (Fluentistrueinresultstate Action seffectmadeittrue Itwastruebeforeandactionleftitalone).
Forexample, theaxiom forthe relational fluent Holding says that the agent isholding
somegold g afterexecuting apossible action ifand only ifthe action wasa Grab ofg
oriftheagentwasalreadyholding g andtheactionwasnotreleasing it:
Poss(a,s) (Holding(Agent,g,Result(a,s)) a Grab(g) (Holding(Agent,g,s) a(cid:7) Release(g))).
UNIQUEACTION We need unique action axioms so that the agent can deduce that, for example, a (cid:7) AXIOMS
Release(g). For each distinct pair of action names A and A we have an axiom that
i j
saystheactionsaredifferent:
A (x,...) (cid:7) A (y,...)
i j
390 Chapter 10. Classical Planning
and for each action name A wehave an axiom that says two uses of that action name
i
areequalifandonlyifalltheirarguments areequal:
A (x ,...,x ) A (y ,...,y ) x y ... x y .
i 1 n i 1 n 1 1 n n Asolution isasituation (andhenceasequence ofactions) thatsatisfiesthegoal.
Work in situation calculus has done a lot to define the formal semantics of planning and to
open up new areas of investigation. But so far there have not been any practical large-scale
planning programs based on logical deduction over the situation calculus. This is in part
because of the difficulty of doing efficient inference in FOL, but is mainly because the field
hasnotyetdevelopedeffectiveheuristics forplanning withsituation calculus.
10.4.3 Planning asconstraint satisfaction
Wehaveseenthatconstraint satisfaction hasalotincommonwith Booleansatisfiability, and
wehavese