 we have in stock are stars, the moon, item and a flag. IH take two moons. The inoons in the second sentence should be understood to be some of the moons mentioned in the first sentence. Notice that to understand the second sentence at all requires that we use the context of the first sentence to establish that the word moons means moon decals. Names of individuals. Consider the text Dave went to the movies. Dave should be understood to be some person named Dave. Although there are many, the speaker had une particular one in mind and the discourse context should tell us which. Causal chains. Consider the text There was a big snow storm yesterday. ~ The schools were closed today. The snow should be recognized as the reason that the schools were closed. Planning sequences. Consider the text -- Sally wanted a new car. She decided to get a job. Sally s sudden interest in a job should be recognized as arising out of her desire for a new car and thus for the money to buy one. Hlocutionary force. Consider the sentence It sure is cold in here. Natural Language Pracessing 315 nes In many circumstances, this sentence should be recognized as having, as its intended effect, that the hearer should do something like close the window or turn up the thermostat. Implicit presuppositions. Consider the query ~ Did Joe fail CS101? The speaker s presuppositions, including the fact that CS 101 is a valid course, that Joe is a student, and that Joe took CS 101, should be recognized so that if any of them is not satisfied, the speaker can be informed. In order to be able to recognize these kinds of relationships among sentences, a great deal of knowledge about the world being discussed is required. Programs that can do multiple-sentence understanding rely either on large knowledge bases or on strong constraints on the domain of discourse so that only a more limited knowledge base is necessary. The way this knowledge is organized is critical to the success of the understanding program. In t