ed to he important. 271 272 Pattern Recognition. Chap. 13 13.1 INTRODUCTION Recognition is the process of establishing a close match between some new stimulus and preroiisfy stored stimulus patterns This process is bein g pertrined continually throughout the lives of all living things. In higher animals this ability is manifested in many forms at both the conscious and Unconscious levels, for both abstract as well as physical objects Through visual sensing and recognition. we identity many special objects. such as home, office, school, restaurants. face sof people. handwriting. and printed words Through aural sensing and recogntion, ccc identify familiar VOi CCS, songs and pieces of music, and bird and other animal sounds Through touch. we identity p Ity 'ocai objects such as rens, Cups. automobile controls, and food items. And through our other senses we identify foods, fresh air. toxic substances and much else. At more abstract levels of cognition, we recognize or identify such thins as ideas (electromagnetic radiation phenomena, model of the atom, world peace). concepts (beauty, generosity, complexity), procedures (game playing. making a hank deposit), plans, old arguments, metaphors, and so On. Our pervasive use of and dependence on our ability to recognize patterns has motivated much research toward the discovery of mechanical or artificial methods comparable to those used by intelligent beings. The results of these efforts to date have been impressive, and numerous applications have resulted. Systems have now been developed to reliably perform character and speech recognition: fingerprint and photograph identifications: electroencephelogram (EEG), electrocardiogram Ii CGj, oil log cvell, and Othei graphical pattern analyses various types of medical and system diagnose': resource identification and evalua'tion (geological, forestry, hydrological, crop disease): and detection of explosive and hostile threats (submarine, aircraft, missilei to name a few. Object c