 in Section 8.2 is t computed sequence of the events of interest which occur at discrete time points. Sec. 8.4 Simulation Example Using on OOS Program 157 This system would have as a minimum the three events: (I) cargo ship arrivals. (2) ship berthing operations, and (3) cargo transfer and ship departures. These events are symbolized by the following expressions which will be used in our program. ship Arrival ship Dockrng ship Depature In the interest of clarity, several simplifying assumptions are made for the simulation problem. First, we limit our objects of interest to three classes, namely the class of ships (three types of cargo ships), the group of entities which make up the harbor operations (tugs, docks, cranes, crews, and the like) treated collectively as one object class called Harbor Operations, and the class called Simulator. The Simulator class is defined to permit separate simulation runs, that is, separate instances of Simulator. Second, we assume that ships arriving to find all berths full depart immediately from the system. Ships arriving when at least one of the eight berths is available are scheduled for docking and cargo transfer. Once a ship has been docked, its departure is then scheduled; To add some realistic randomness to the operation, the time between ship arrivals is assumed to be exponentially distributed with a mean value of 3 time Units. The time to dock is assumed to be uniformly distributed with a range of 0.5 to 2.0 time units, and the time to transfer cargo is assumed to be 'exponentially distributed with a mean of 14 time Units. Finally, to simulate three different types of ships, a newly arriving ship is randomly assigned a cargo weight of 10. 20. or 30 thousand tons from an empirical distribution with probabilities 0.2. 0.5. and 0.3, respectively. The three types of simulated events may occur at any discrete time point, and they may even occur concurrently. To manage these events, we require a system clock to assign scheduled e