s one can see from the figure, after the transition via states 1 and 2, the ball will be in a qualitative state in which it is moving to the right and down. The four solid trajectories in the figure are qualitatively identical states moving down and right, and will be treated identically by a qualitative reasoning system. For our benefit, we can see that the next transitions will occur in state 1a, 1b, 2a or 2b. In fact, these are only two distinct states. 1a and 2a are identical, when the ball travelling down and right hits a wall. Likewise, 1b and 2b represent the state when it hits the ground. The resulting trajectories are hinted at by the dashed arrows. The states following the transition at 3 are left as an exercise for the reader. Figure 17.4 State 1 can lead to either state 1a or to state 1b, and likewise for state 2 there are two possible successor states. Observe that 1a and 2a are qualitatively the same state. The successors of state 3 are not shown here. 17.2.1 Representation The world around us changes continuously. We need finite, symbolic methods for describing continuous change. A qualitative description is one that captures distinctions that make an important, qualitative difference, and ignores the others (Kuipers, 1994). Consider a person travelling in a train from Chennai to New Delhi on the Tamil Nadu Express. She might have a qualitative notion of her location. She might have some stations on the route as landmarks, and may keep track of her position, only with respect to those landmarks. She might say, for example, that the train is somewhere between Vijayawada and Nagpur. Perhaps breakfast was served at Vijayawada, and lunch is expected at Nagpur. In general, a train passenger may represent its location as being between two stations that it halts at. The simplest possible variables used for representation are nominal, in which the variable either has a value or does not. For example, a mechanic diagnosing a vehicle might say that the engine n