d tolocationsinimageswherethebrightnessundergoes asharpchange, and
so the magnitude of the gradient, I , should be large at an edge point. Of independent
interestisthedirectionofthegradient
(cid:13) (cid:14) I cos . I sin Thisgivesusa (x,y)ateverypixel,whichdefinestheedgeorientation atthatpixel.
ORIENTATION
Section24.2. Early Image-Processing Operations 939
Asinonedimension, toformthegradientwedon tcompute I,butrather (I N ), the gradient after smoothing the image by convolving it with a Gaussian. And again, the
shortcut is that this is equivalent to convolving the image with the partial derivatives of a
Gaussian. Oncewehavecomputed thegradient, wecanobtain edges byfinding edge points
and linking them together. To tell whether a point is an edge point, we must look at other
points a small distance forward and back along the direction of the gradient. If the gradient
magnitude at one of these points is larger, then we could get a better edge point by shifting
the edge curve very slightly. Furthermore, if the gradient magnitude is too small, the point
cannot be an edge point. So at an edge point, the gradient magnitude is a local maximum
alongthedirectionofthegradient, andthegradient magnitudeisaboveasuitablethreshold.
Oncewehavemarkededgepixelsbythisalgorithm,thenextstageistolinkthosepixels
thatbelongtothesameedgecurves. Thiscanbedonebyassumingthatanytwoneighboring
edgepixelswithconsistent orientations mustbelongtothesameedgecurve.
24.2.2 Texture
In everyday language, texture is the visual feel of a surface what you see evokes what
TEXTURE
the surface might feel like if you touched it ( texture has the same root as textile ). In
computational vision, texture refers to a spatially repeating pattern on a surface that can be
sensedvisually. Examplesincludethepatternofwindowsonabuilding,stitchesonasweater,
spots on a leopard, blades of grass on a lawn, pebbles on a beach, and people in a stadium.
Sometimes the arrangement is quite periodic, as in the stitches on a sweate