CT and the source and,the recipient of the ACT. Rule 8 describes the relationship between an ACT and the instrument with which it is performed. The instrument must always be a full conceptualization (i.e.. it must contain an ACT), not just a single physical object. Rule 9 describes the relationship between an ACT and its physical source and destination. Rule 10 represents the relationship between a PP and a state in which it started and another in which it ended. Rule 11 describes the relationship between one conceptualization and another that causes it. Notice that the arrows indicate dependency of one conceptualization on another and so point in the opposite direction of the implication arrows. The two forms of the rule describe the cause of an action and the cause of a state change. Rule 12 describes the relationship between a conceptualization and the time at which the event it describes occurred. Rule 13 describes the relationship between one conceptualization and another that is the time of the first. The exampie for this rale also shows how CD exploits a model of the human information processing system; see is represented as the transfer of information between the eyes and the conscious processor. Rule 14 describes the relationship between a conceptualization and the place at which it occurred. Conceptualizations representing events can be modified in a variety of ways to supply information normally indicated in language by the tense, mood, or aspect of a verb form, The use of the modifier p to indicate past tense has already been shown. The set of conceptual tenses proposed by Schank [1973] includes Pp Past f Future t Transition t, Start transition ty Finished transition k Continuing ? Interrogative / Negative nil Present delta Timeless c Conditional As an example of the use of these tenses, consider the CD representation shown in Fig. 10.3 (taken from Schank [1973]) of the sentence Since smoking can kill you, I stopped. Strong Siot-and-Filler Structures 211