 value of BUILD that were bound during the matching of the constituents, then those bindings will be used to build the new constituent. There are many possible variations on the notation we have described here. There are also a variety of ways of using it to represent dictionary entries and grammar rules. See Shieber [1986] and Knight [ 1989] for discussions of some of them. Although we have presented unification here as a technique for doing syntactic analysis, it has also been used as a basis for semantic interpretation. In fact, there are arguments for using it as a uniform representation for all phases of natural language understanding. There are also arguments against doing so, primarily involving system modularity, the noncompositionality of language in some respects (see Section 15.3.4), and the need to invoke substantial domain reasoning. We will not say any tore about this here, but to see how this idea could work, see Allen [1989]. 15.3. SEMANTIC ANALYSIS Producing a syntactic parse of a sentence is only the first step toward understanding it. We must still produce a representation of the meaning of the sentence. Because understanding is a mapping process, we must first define the language into which we are trying to map. There is no single, definitive language in which all sentence meanings can be described. All of the knowledge representation systems that were described in Part II are candidates, and having selected one or more of them, we still need to define the vocabulary (i.e., the predicates, frames, or whatever) that will be used on top of the structure. In the rest of this chapter, we call the fina) meaning representation language, including both the representational framework and the specific meaning vocabulary, the target language. The choice of a target language for any particular natural language understanding program must depend on what is to be done with the meanings once they are constructed. There are two broad families of target languages