ently in a goal directed manner as an agent. Then, given a state in which a problem solver exists, and given a set of actions that the problem solving agent has access to, the intelligent agent choses the actions that will result in the agent being in a desired state that satisfies the agent s goals. Within this broad framework, all kinds of problems can be posed, and many different kinds of techniques can be applied. Identifying a desired state, or goal of an agent, is also within the scope of intelligence, though often categorized as wisdom, exemplified by the phrase wise choice . There are two broad approaches to solving problems. The first is to treat every problem to be solved using first principles, and the second is to harness knowledge gleaned from experience or from other agents. The first principles approach says that an agent can solve a problem by reasoning about actions, exploring combinations, and choosing the ones that lead to the solution. Even this exploration can be done in an informed manner. We begin our own exploration of Al by first studying this approach. However, as we soon see, there lurks the danger of combinatorial explosion that the agent has to contend with. We then refine and modify the search based approach to include heuristic knowledge, and then we move towards ways to deploy more explicit forms of domain specific knowledge. These will include logic and reasoning, memory structures and the exploitation of experience, deeper knowledge in models and ontology, and the relation between language and knowledge. We will look at machine learning techniques that can learn from instances of data. Along the way, we also look at game playing and planning problems. Our study of knowledge begins with employing logic as a vehicle. We draw upon the strong mathematical and philosophical base of logical reasoning. Here again, we witness that the weak methods for theorem proving encounter the feared adversary, CombEx, or combinatorial explosion. We loo