ometimes a conformant problem. At first, one might think the sensorless
SENSORLESS
agent has no hope ofsolving aproblem if ithas no idea whatstate it s in; in fact, sensorless
CONFORMANT
problems are quite often solvable. Moreover, sensorless agents can be surprisingly useful,
primarily because they don t rely on sensors working properly. In manufacturing systems,
forexample,manyingeniousmethodshavebeendevelopedfororientingpartscorrectlyfrom
an unknown initial position by using a sequence of actions with no sensing at all. The high
cost of sensing is another reason to avoid it: for example, doctors often prescribe a broad-
spectrum antibiotic rather than using the contingent plan of doing an expensive blood test,
thenwaitingfortheresults tocomeback, andthenprescribing amorespecificantibiotic and
perhapshospitalization becausetheinfection hasprogressed toofar.
Wecan make a sensorless version of the vacuum world. Assume that the agent knows
the geography of its world, but doesn t know its location or the distribution of dirt. In that
case,itsinitialstatecouldbeanyelementoftheset 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 . Now,considerwhat
happensifittriestheaction Right. Thiswillcauseittobeinoneofthestates 2,4,6,8 the
agentnowhasmoreinformation! Furthermore, theactionsequence Right,Suck willalways
endup inone ofthestates 4,8 . Finally, thesequence Right,Suck,Left,Suck isguaranteed
to reach the goal state 7 no matter what the start state. We say that the agent can coerce the
COERCION
worldintostate7.
Tosolvesensorlessproblems,wesearchinthespaceofbeliefstatesratherthanphysical
states.10 Notice that in belief-state space, the problem is fully observable because the agent
10 Inafullyobservableenvironment,eachbeliefstatecontainsonephysicalstate. Thus,wecanviewthealgo-
rithmsin Chapter3assearchinginabelief-statespaceofsingletonbeliefstates.
Section4.4. Searchingwith Partial Observations 139
alwaysknowsitsownbeliefstate. Furthermore, thesolution (ifany)isalwaysasequence of
actions. Thisisbecause,asin