f a script: Entry conditions Conditions that must, in general, be satisfied before the events described in the script can occur, Result Conditions that will, in general, be true after the events described in the script have occurred. Props Slots representing objects that are involved in the events described in the script. The presence of these objects can be inferred even if they are not mentioned explicitly. Roles Slots representing people who are involved in the events described in the script. The presence of these people, too, can be inferred even if they are not mentioned explicitly. If specific individuals are mentioned, they can be inserted into the appropriate slots. Track The specific variation on a more general pattern that is represented by this particular script. Different tracks of the same script will share many but not all components. Scenes The actual sequences of events that occur. The events are represented in conceptual dependency formalism. Scripts are useful because, in the real world, there are patterns to the occurrence of events. These patterns arise because of causal relationships between events. Agents will perform one action so that they will then be able to perform another. The events described in a script form a giant causal chain. The beginning of the chain is the set of entry conditions which enable the first events of the script to occur. The end of the chain is the set of results which may enable later events or event sequences (possibly described by other scripts) to occur. Within the chain, events are connected both to earlier events that make them possible and to later events that they enable. If a particular script is known to be appropriate in a given situation, then it can be very useful in predicting the occurrence of events that were not explicitly mentioned. Scripts can also be useful by indicating how events that were mentioned relate to each other. For example, what is the connection between someone s ordering steak and som