d is to provide advice on how best to go about solving a problem efficiently. We can call such knowledge heuristic knowledge. 26.2 AI SKEPTICS AN OPEN ARGUMENT Just in case there are still some of us who firmly believe in the meaninglessness of AI, here is an argument. If the Turing test fails to satisfy AI skeptics, let s pose the argument in a different way. Nature by itself is a rule based system. The rules are too many, far more complex, that we are often (naturally) led to helieve that some incidents are random. Had we the source code for the way Nature behaves and its /og file during its execution 530 Artificial Intelligence over the eons, we may be able to comprehend each phenomenon. Unfortunately this is not to be. The fact that scientists discover something, could be attributed to your finding (either by fluke or by persistent effort) some hidden treasure or something that you have lost. In doing so, scientists seem to be branded intelligent for having actually found a rule in Nature s source code. So what are scientists and researchers actually doing? Unravelling Nature's rule base to be designated as intelligent beings! Now imagine a robot placed in a fairly complex environment. The rules of the environment are, of course, propounded by the user/creator of the robot. Imagine this robot, empowered with some learning algorithms, manages to crack the way its environment behaves. Can we not therefore say that the robot (just like the human scientist) has discovered a rule within its environment (its Nature)? If so, arguing on similar grounds as a scientist, the robot too could be designated as an intelligent being. The algorithms running within it as also the information gathered by it over the period of time of its existence could be termed to be its intelligence. The goal of this book has been to say enough about the use of knowledge in problem-solving programs to enable you to build one. Go do it. And have fun. EXERCISES fhe Cia rave as Heniethinianat Cea 