 and its cause. This approach is called dependency-directed backtracking (DDB). It is described in detail in Section 7.5.1. 3.6 MEANS-ENDS ANALYSIS So far, we have presented a collection of search strategies that can reason either forward or backward, but for a given problem, one direction or the other must be chosen. Often, however, a mixture of the two directions is appropriate. Such a mixed strategy would make it possible to solve the major parts of a problem first and then go back and solve the small problems that arise in gluing the big pieces together. A technique known as means-ends analysis allows us to do that. The means-ends analysis process centers around the detection of differences between tbe current state and the goal state. Once such a difference is isolated, an operator that can reduce the difference must be found. But perhaps that operator cannot be applied to the current state. So we set up a subproblem of getting to a state in which it can be applied. The kind of backward chaining in which operators are selected and then subgoals are set up to establish the preconditions of the operators is called operator subgoaling. But maybe the operator ' does not produce exactly the goal state we want. Then we have a second subproblem of getting from the state it does produce to the goal. But if the difference was chosen cortectly and if the operator is really effective at reducing the difference, then the two subproblems should be easier to solve than the original problem. The means-ends analysis process can then be applied recursively. In order to focus the system s attention on the big problems first, the differences can be assigned priority levels. Differences of higher priority can then be considered before lower priority ones. The first Al program to exploit means-ends analysis was the General Problem Solver (GPS) [Newell and Simon, 1963; Emst and Newell, 1969]. lts design was motivated by the observation that people often use this technique when they 