ted and replicated as often as one wants. As more and more researchers write more and more programs, the ratchet of evolution will retain the best ones; and hopefully the different modules will evolve, and one day come together. An intelligent agent would need a multitude of faculties. The agent should be able to sense the world around it, deliberate over its options, and act in the world. The different areas of study that are listed in Figure 1.3 are all part of the enterprise of building intelligent systems. One could think of these competencies as making up Minsky s Society of the Mind. The topics have been arranged in the figure so that sensing the world is to the left, and acting in the world is to the right. The world in this figure is the world inhabited by us humans, and we can think of the agent as a robot in the same world interacting with human beings. The topics inside the dashed circle are concerned with what we might call thinking . The sense-deliberate-act cycle would describe the activity of an autonomous agent in the world. The topics on the left are concerned with sensing the world. As humans, we use the senses of sight, sound, touch, smell and taste. Of these, our current research focus is on the first three, though some work has been done in using smell as well (look up for example artificial noses ). Visual perception is perhaps our most used sense, so much so that the word seeing has acquired a sense of understanding (when we say I see , for example). A variety of topics in computer science now address visual perception. Chief amongst those, depicted in the figure, are Pattern Recognition and Computer Vision, now areas of interest in their own right. The former, as the name suggests, studies the methods of recognizing patterns, while the latter deals with employing pattern recognition and other techniques to process still and moving images to identify objects and extract other kinds of information, and is often preceded by image processing whic