ackaged in a cell and which contains many genes. The genes carry instructions encoded in a physical form in the DNA of an individual. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a nucleic acid that contains the genetic instructions for the biological development of a cellular form of life or a virus . DNA consists of a pair of molecules, organized as strands running start-to-end and joined by hydrogen bonds along their lengths. Each strand is a chain of chemical building blocks , called nucleotides, of which there are four types: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). DNA is thought to have originated approximately 3.5 to 4.6 billion years ago, and is responsible for the genetic propagation of most inherited traits. In humans, these traits range from hair colour to disease susceptibility. The genetic information encoded by an organism s DNA is called its genome. During cell division, DNA is replicated, and during reproduction is transmitted to offspring. The offspring s genome is a combination of the genomes of its parents. The phenotype of an organism, on the other hand, represents its actual physical properties, such as height, weight, hair colour, and so on. It is the physical entity or the phenotype that goes out and competes in the world. So while the genotype represents the inherited design, the phenotype is the individual that is the result of that design. A newborn individual is like a computer program let loose in a system that can interpret it. Simple life forms, like the paramecium, earthworm, jellyfish or a cockroach, embody simple programs or strategies. More complex forms, like a typical mammal, embody more complex strategies. Intelligent life forms deploy very flexible strategies . And in each species, the competition within has led to a continuous improvement in the strategy, through a process of natural selection. Genetic Algorithms (GA) are a class of algorithms that try and build solutions by introducing evolution and selection of the best in 