f the goal distance for alternative paths Hill climbing can produce substantial savings over blind searches when an informative, reliable function is available to guide the search to a global goal. It suffers from some serious drawbacks when this is not the case. Potential problem types named after certain terrestrial anomalies are the foothill, ridge, and plateau traps. The foothill trap results when local maxima o? peaks are found. In this case the children all have less promising goal distances than the parent node. The search is essentially trapped at the local node with no indication of goal direction. The only way to remedy this problem is to try moving in some arbitrary direction a few generations in the hope that the real goal direction will become evident, backtrack180 Search and Control Strategies Chap. 9 Figure 9.9 S,..irch th htl ins to an ancestor node and trying a secondary path choice, or altering the computation procedure to expand ahead a few generations each time before choosing a path. A second potential problem occurs when several adjoining nodes have higher values than surrounding nodes. This is the equivalent of a ridge. It too is a form of local trap and the only remedy is to try to escape as in the foothill case above. Finally, the search ma encounter a plateau type of1 structure, that is, an area in which all neighboring nodes have the same values. Once again, one of the methods noted above must be tried to escape the trap. The problems encountered with hill climbing can be avoided using a bestfirst search approach. Best-First Search Best-first search also depends on the use of a heuristic to select most promising paths to the goal node. Unlike hill climbing, however, this algorithm retains all estimates computed for previously generated nodes and makes its selection based on the best among them all. Thus, at any point in the search process. hest-trt moves forward from the most promising of all the nodes generated so far. In so doing, it avo