variables have the do-
i
main 0,1,2,3 , then to make the variable X consistent with the constraint X Y Z,
wewould have to eliminate 2 and 3from the domain of X because the constraint cannot be
satisfiedwhen X is2or3.
6.2.3 Pathconsistency
Arc consistency can go a long way toward reducing the domains of variables, sometimes
finding a solution (by reducing every domain to size 1) and sometimes finding that the CSP
cannotbesolved(byreducingsomedomaintosize0). Butforothernetworks,arcconsistency
fails to make enough inferences. Consider the map-coloring problem on Australia, but with
onlytwocolorsallowed,redandblue. Arcconsistencycandonothingbecauseeveryvariable
isalreadyarcconsistent: eachcanberedwithblueattheotherendofthearc(orviceversa).
Butclearlythereisnosolutiontotheproblem: because Western Australia,Northern Territory
and South Australiaalltoucheachother,weneedatleastthreecolorsforthemalone.
Arc consistency tightens down the domains (unary constraints) using the arcs (binary
constraints). Tomakeprogress onproblems like mapcoloring, weneed astronger notion of
consistency. Path consistency tightens the binary constraints by using implicit constraints
PATHCONSISTENCY
thatareinferredbylookingattriplesofvariables.
A two-variable set X ,X is path-consistent with respect to a third variable X if,
i j m
foreveryassignment X a,X b consistent withtheconstraints on X ,X ,thereis
i j i j
anassignmentto X thatsatisfiestheconstraintson X ,X and X ,X . Thisiscalled
m i m m j
path consistency because one can think of it aslooking at apath from X to X with X in
i j m
themiddle.
Let sseehowpathconsistency faresincoloring the Australiamapwithtwocolors. We
willmaketheset WA,SA pathconsistentwithrespectto NT. Westartbyenumeratingthe
consistent assignments totheset. Inthis case, there areonly two: WA red,SA blue and WA blue,SA red . We can see that with both of these assignments NT can be
neither red nor blue (because it would conflict with either WA or SA). Because there is no
validch