ulprit, and what is your degree of belief in your conclusion? What is the confidence interval supporting the statement It was either Mr. Y or Mr. R ? Justify all your answers. 29. Sherlock brooded over the piece of paper he had just received. It is either Tinker, or Tailor , he muttered finally, but my sources are only 50 reliable . You could be right , added Pradosh, because my investigations reveal, with 0.8 confidence that it is either Tinker or Soldier or Spy . They all looked at Hercule who, twirling his moustache, said, I think that it is either Tailor or Spy. am 60 certain of it. Everybody knew that one of Tinker, Tailor, Soldier and Spy had stolen the document, but none was quite sure who. After a while George, who had been listening intently said, The evidence collected by you all is inconsistent. However, the best we can do is to conclude that is the culprit. The name was lost in thunder. (a) Who, according to you, is the culprit? Quantify your belief. (b) Is George s remark of inconsistency justified? (c) What is your final belief in Sherlock s statement? Goal a Figure 17.45 A grid world. (d) What is your belief in the statement that Soldier is not the culprit? (e) What is your belief in the statement that Spy is not the culprit? Give reasons for your answers. 30. Consider the Dempster-Shafer approach to evidential reasoning. Given a frame of discernment , let there be three sets A;CO, A2C0,A3CO0 for which some evidence has been received with m,(A1), M2(Az) and m3(A3) degrees of support. Given a set A SO, how does one compute Bel(A)? What is the associated confidence interval? The sets containing the elements in the domain. 2 Here the intent is to depict isolation as not having access to the internet, but isolation could come from other reasons as well. It depicts abnormality with respect to chatting with friends. 3 Observe that the quantification is over a predicate. 4 Assuming that the set of predicates being circumscribed is identified. 5 Ora special i