y brief introduction to some local search techniques for finding optimal solu-
tions in continuous spaces. Theliterature on this topic is vast; many of the basic techniques
130 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
EVOLUTION AND SEARCH
The theory of evolution was developed in Charles Darwin s On the Origin of
Speciesby Meansof Natural Selection(1859)andindependently by Alfred Russel
Wallace (1858). The central idea is simple: variations occur in reproduction and
will be preserved in successive generations approximately in proportion to their
effectonreproductive fitness.
Darwin stheorywasdevelopedwithnoknowledgeofhowthetraitsoforgan-
isms can be inherited and modified. The probabilistic laws governing these pro-
cesses were first identified by Gregor Mendel (1866), a monk who experimented
withsweetpeas. Muchlater,Watsonand Crick(1953)identifiedthestructureofthe
DNA molecule and its alphabet, AGTC (adenine, guanine, thymine, cytosine). In
thestandardmodel,variationoccursbothbypointmutationsinthelettersequence
and by crossover (in which the DN Aof an offspring is generated by combining
longsections of DN Afromeachparent).
Theanalogytolocalsearchalgorithmshasalreadybeendescribed; theprinci-
paldifferencebetweenstochasticbeamsearchandevolutionistheuseofsexualre-
production, wherein successors are generated from multiple organisms rather than
just one. The actual mechanisms of evolution are, however, far richer than most
genetic algorithms allow. For example, mutations can involve reversals, duplica-
tions,andmovementoflargechunksof DNA;somevirusesborrow DN Afromone
organism andinsert itinanother; and therearetransposable genes thatdonothing
but copy themselves many thousands of times within the genome. There are even
genesthatpoison cellsfrompotential matesthatdonotcarrythegene,thereby in-
creasingtheirownchancesofreplication. Mostimportantisthefactthatthegenes
themselves encode the mechanisms whereby the genome is reproduced and trans-
lated into an organism. In genetic a