 basic mechanism of inheritance. We can apply this procedure to our example knowledge base to derive answers to the following queries: team(Pee-Wee-Reese) = Brooklyn-Dodgers. This attribute had a value stored explicitly in the knowledge base. batting-average(Three-Finger Brown) = .106. Since there is no value for batting average stored explicitly for Three Finger Brown, we follow the instance attribute to Pitcher and extract the value stored there. Now we observe one of the critical characteristics of property inheritance, namely that it may produce default values that are not guaranteed to be correct but that represent best guesses in the face of a lack of more precise information. In fact, in 1906, Brown s batting average was .204. height(Pee-Wee-Reese) = 6-1. This represents another default inference. Notice here that because we get to it first, the more specific fact about the height of baseball players overrides a more general fact about the he'z't of adult males. Knowledge Representation Issues 85 bats(Three-Finger-Brown) = Right. To get a value for the attribute bats required going up the isa hierarchy to the class Baseball-Player. But what we found there was not a value but a rule for computing a value. This rule required another value (that for handed) as input. So the entire process must be begun again recursively to find a value for handed. This time, it is necessary to go all the way up to Person to discover that the default value for handedness for people is Right. Now the rule for bats can be applied, producing the result Right. In this case, that tums out to be wrong, since Brown is a switch hitter (i.e., he can hit both left-and right-handed). Inferential Knowledge Property inheritance is a powerful form of inference, but it is not the only useful form. Sometimes all the power of traditional logic (and sometimes even more than that) is necessary to describe the inferences that are needed. Figure 4.7 shows two examples of the use of first-order predic