cted
utility for each decision (under the assumption that other agents are acting optimally
according to game theory). Forexample, in the game two-finger Morra, two players,
O and E, simultaneously display one or two fingers. Let the total number of fingers
be f. If f is odd, O collects f dollars from E; and if f is even, E collects f dollars
from O. Gametheory can determine the best strategy against a rational player and the
expectedreturnforeachplayer.4
4 Morraisarecreationalversionofaninspectiongame.Insuchgames,aninspectorchoosesadaytoinspecta
facility(suchasarestaurantorabiologicalweaponsplant),andthefacilityoperatorchoosesadaytohideallthe
nastystuff.Theinspectorwinsifthedaysaredifferent,andthefacilityoperatorwinsiftheyarethesame.
Section17.5. Decisionswith Multiple Agents: Game Theory 667
2. Mechanism design: When an environment is inhabited by many agents, it might be
possible to define the rules of the environment (i.e., the game that the agents must
play)sothatthecollective goodofallagentsismaximizedwheneachagentadoptsthe
game-theoretic solution that maximizes its own utility. For example, game theory can
help design the protocols for a collection of Internet traffic routers so that each router
hasanincentive toactinsuch awaythat global throughput ismaximized. Mechanism
designcanalsobeusedtoconstruct intelligent multiagentsystemsthatsolvecomplex
problemsinadistributed fashion.
17.5.1 Single-movegames
Westartbyconsidering arestricted setofgames: oneswhere allplayerstakeactionsimulta-
neously and the result of the game is based on this single set of actions. (Actually, it is not
crucialthattheactionstakeplaceatexactlythesametime;whatmattersisthatnoplayerhas
knowledge ofthe otherplayers choices.) Therestriction to asingle move (and the very use
of the word game ) might make this seem trivial, but in fact, game theory is serious busi-
ness. It is used in decision-making situations including the auctioning of oil drilling rights
and wireless frequency spectrum ri