L predicates. In a dynamic world however the value of the predicate can change over time. We call such predicates fluents irhut.com If we want to reason about the effects of actions on the world i we need to be able to treat actions and fluents as arguments to predicates that represent relations between them. Strictly speaking, this violates the definition of FOL, because arguments to predicates in FOL can only be terms, and terms are mapped to elements in the domain. However, we can circumvent this problem by extending the domain to include instances of actions and fluents. That is, for the purpose of reasoning with them, we add the symbolic representations of predicates and actions to the domain or the universe of discourse. We say that we have reified the actions and predicates. We also need to introduce a representation of time, because we need to talk about when the actions happened and what fluent is true at a given time. The (classical) FOL operates in a mathematical domain where predicates are either always true or always false, and in some sense time does not need to exist. The well known Event Calculus (EC) (Kowalski and Sergot, 1986), (Shanahan, 1999), (Mueller, 2006) introduces three (new) sorts events or actions, fluents, and time. We can visualize the domain of event calculus as shown in Figure 13.8. The subject matter for the Event Calculus comes from the sorts of time, actions, and fluents. The fluents themselves are predicates over what we can call the physical domain. The domain for the EC is the extended domain constituting of the time, actions and fluents domains. The variables and constants of the EC belong to one of the following sorts. An Event Sort, with variables e, e;, e2 ... The constants of the event sort will be the actions and exogenous events in the specific domain, like unstack(block2, block6), walk(home22, ramesh23, office34), wakeUp(kumbhakaran7), cyclone(nisha, 2008). A Fluent Sort, with variables f, f,, f2 ... The constants of the