ULAR specularreflection. Somesurfaces such asbrushed metal, plastic, orawetfloor display
REFLECTION
smallpatcheswherespecularreflection hasoccurred, calledspecularities. Theseareeasyto
SPECULARITIES
identify,becausetheyaresmallandbright(Figure24.4). Foralmostallpurposes,itisenough
tomodelallsurfaces asbeingdiffusewithspecularities.
934 Chapter 24. Perception A B
Figure24.5 Twosurfacepatchesareilluminatedbyadistantpointsource,whoseraysare
shown as gray arrowheads. Patch A is tilted away from the source ( is close to 900) and
collectslessenergy,becauseitcutsfewerlightraysperunitsurfacearea. Patch B,facingthe
source( iscloseto00),collectsmoreenergy.
Themainsourceofillumination outsideisthesun,whoseraysalltravelparalleltoone
DISTANTPOINT another. Wemodel this behavior asa distantpointlight source. Thisisthemostimportant
LIGHTSOURCE
model of lighting, and is quite effective for indoor scenes as well as outdoor scenes. The
amountoflightcollectedbyasurfacepatchinthismodeldependsontheangle betweenthe
illumination direction andthenormaltothesurface.
A diffuse surface patch illuminated by a distant point light source will reflect some
fraction of the light it collects; this fraction is called the diffuse albedo. White paper and
DIFFUSEALBEDO
snowhaveahighalbedo,about0.90,whereasflatblackvelvetandcharcoalhavealowalbedo
of about 0.05 (which means that 95 of the incoming light is absorbed within the fibers of
LAMBERT SCOSINE thevelvetortheporesofthecharcoal). Lambert scosinelawstatesthatthebrightness ofa
LAW
diffusepatchisgivenby
I I cos ,
0
where isthediffusealbedo,I istheintensityofthelightsourceand istheanglebetween
0
the light source direction and the surface normal (see Figure 24.5). Lampert s law predicts
bright image pixels come from surface patches that face the light directly and dark pixels
come from patches that see the light only tangentially, so that the shading on a surface pro-
vides some shape information. We explore this cue in Section 24.4.5. If the surface is 