oken and written language. The average human receives a considerable amount of information from society though her lifetime. Our knowledge and language systems need a much more detailed study that goes beyond memetic habits. We will look at the representation and use of knowledge in later chapters. 4.8 Discussion Search spaces for most problems are too large to be searched exhaustively. Complete algorithms like Best First Search may run out of memory space for large problems. Local search algorithms like Hill Climbing require small, usually constant, amount of space. While they do mitigate the space requirements, Hill Climbing ends up with another problem. They may not find the solution. Hill Climbing is a simple greedy algorithm that puts its entire faith into the heuristic function, choosing at each stage the move along the steepest gradient as indicated by the heuristic function, and possibly getting stuck on a local optimum with no way of knowing whether a better one exists. The HC algorithm exploits the heuristic function single mindedly. A Random Walk on the other extreme completely ignores the heuristic function, choosing instead to explore the search space. One redeeming feature of a random move is that it cheerfully goes past a local optimum, and this is what most methods that mix exploitation and exploration want to capitalize upon. Simulated Annealing does this by probabilistically allowing random moves. At any point of time, it looks at one neighbour, and may move to it with a certain probability. The probability depends upon the amount of exploitation the move does. The better the neighbour is, the more likely the move. It can also move to a worse neighbour, though with a small probability. Even if no good moves are available at a node, it will eventually make a bad move too, and get off local optima. The probability also depends upon what stage the search is in. In the initial stages, SA is biased towards exploration, and the probability is high, irres