and Shrink algorithm has to retrieve only the best cases. 17. Modify the Fish-and-Shrink-T algorithm for the KNN retrieval task. 18. Extend the Fish and Shrink algorithm to continue till the cases are sorted in decreasing value of similarity. Hint: continue the Fish and Shrink process till the bounds do not overlap. What set of cases will be used here? 19. Extend the Fish and Shrink algorithm to return the similarity values as well. 20. Given a query, how would one efficiently generate the list af indices required as input for our CRN algorithm in Figure 15.31? 21. Modify the CRN-T algorithm to retrieve the K best cases. 22. The algorithm CRN-T requires an E node for every attribute-value pair. These nodes could be constructed from the cases in the case base. However, for numeric attributes, the query may contain values that do not match any E nodes. Extend the CRN-T algorithm to activate the best matching E nodes with appropriate values for numeric attributes. 23. Write the function relative-diversity(case:C, retrieval set:R) used in Diversity-BG procedure. Keep in mind that the cases in the list returned by Sequential-KNN, are pairs containing the case-id and its similarity with the query. 1 Subsequently, this step was expanded to Recycle, Refine and Retain (G ker and Roth-Berghofer, 1999). 2 More papers at the sites for Mixed Initiative workshops held during ECCBR02 and ICCBRO3 http: home.earthlink.net dwaha research meetings eccbr02-micbrw http: www.iccbr.org iccbr03 workshops dwaha research meetings iccbr03micbrw index.html 3 Thanks to N.S. Narayanaswamy. 4 Looking at candidates for boxing matches, however, 65 and 68 might be considered to have low similarity because the qualitative interval that defines Welterweight category is 63.5 kg and 66.7 kg http. en. wikipedia. org wiki Welterweight 5 Metric (mathematics). http: en. wikipedia. org wiki Metric 28mathematics 29 8 Note that conditions 1 and 2 together produce positive definiteness. 7 remember a bright four