onaryentrieswithotherspammessagesandthuswillcompressbetterwhenappendedto
acollection thatalready containsthespamdictionary.
Experimentswithcompression-based classificationonsomeofthestandardcorporafor
textclassification the 20-Newsgroups dataset,the Reuters-10Corpora, the Industry Sector
corpora indicatethatwhereasrunningoff-the-shelfcompressionalgorithmslikegzip,RAR,
and LZW can be quite slow, their accuracy is comparable to traditional classification algo-
rithms. This is interesting in its own right, and also serves to point out that there is promise
foralgorithmsthatusecharacter n-gramsdirectlywithnopreprocessing ofthetextorfeature
selection: theyseemtobecaptiring somerealpatterns.
22.3 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL
INFORMATION Information retrieval is the task of finding documents that are relevant to a user s need for
RETRIEVAL
information. The best-known examples of information retrieval systems are search engines
onthe World Wide Web. AWebusercantypeaquerysuchas AIbook 2 intoasearchengine
and see a list of relevant pages. In this section, we will see how such systems are built. An
information retrieval(henceforth IR)systemcanbecharacterized by
IR
1. Acorpusofdocuments. Eachsystemmustdecidewhatitwantstotreatasadocument:
aparagraph, apage,oramultipage text.
2. Queries posed in a query language. A query specifies what the user wants to know.
QUERYLANGUAGE
The query language can be just a list of words, such as AI book ; or it can specify
a phrase of words that must be adjacent, as in AI book ; it can contain Boolean
operatorsasin AIAN Dbook ;itcanincludenon-Booleanoperatorssuchas AINEAR
book or AIbooksite:www.aaai.org .
3. Aresultset. Thisisthesubsetofdocumentsthatthe IRsystemjudgestoberelevantto
RESULTSET
thequery. Byrelevant, wemeanlikely tobeofusetotheperson whoposed thequery,
RELEVANT
fortheparticularinformation needexpressedinthequery.
4. A presentation of the result set. This can be as simple as a ranked list of document
PRESENTATION
titles or as complex as a rot