re generalized and also new ones emerge to cater to different situations. Like Kant, Piaget also believed in the active role the mind plays in perception. According to him, individuals are not passive creatures acted upon by the environment, assimilating experiences as they occur. Rather, individuals actively construct their own perceptions, assimilating new experiences and accommodating the schemas when needed. The schema, both structures our experience and is structured by it (Mandler, 1985). It provides a framework which is useful in understanding related pieces of information being received by an agent. Because a schema holds together its constituents in a structured manner, when it is retrieved from memory, the entire structure with its relations is retrieved, and can help in coherently understanding what is going on. The work on Frames and Scripts described illustrates these features. For both Bartlett and Piaget, schemas emerge when individuals strive to understand the world, and are direct consequences of their experiences. A schema is what helps us organize and structure data. The data may pertain to objects in the world or to events. We learn and acquire schemas both through experience and by being taught. One of the first schemas that a child acquires is that of the human body, as it is repeatedly asked to point to its nose and eyes an lips and hands and feet. As it grows, the child acquires the notions of outings, shopping, rules of games, and how to tie shoelaces. For each of these, it develops some kind of internal prototype and learns to recognize and categorize things, as well as employ schemas for problem solving. Recall the way a child learns addition of numbers, with the procedure or algorithm of adding digits by table lookup and taking a carry over to the left and so on, and how it acquires more complex schemas to solve simple algebraic equations with one variable, to the method of bisecting an angle. In the second half of the twentieth century, 