m
A strong challenge to functionalism has been mounted by John Searle s (1980) biological
BIOLOGICAL naturalism,accordingtowhichmentalstatesarehigh-levelemergentfeaturesthatarecaused
NATURALISM
by low-level physical processes in the neurons, and it is the (unspecified) properties of the
neurons that matter. Thus, mental states cannot be duplicated just on the basis of some pro-
gram having the same functional structure with the same input output behavior; we would
requirethattheprogramberunningonanarchitecturewiththesamecausalpowerasneurons.
Tosupporthisview,Searledescribes ahypothetical system thatisclearlyrunning aprogram
andpassesthe Turing Test,butthatequallyclearly(according to Searle)doesnotunderstand
anything of its inputs and outputs. His conclusion is that running the appropriate program
(i.e.,havingtherightoutputs) isnotasufficient condition forbeingamind.
The system consists of a human, who understands only English, equipped with a rule
book, writtenin English, and various stacks ofpaper, someblank, somewithindecipherable
inscriptions. (The human therefore plays the role of the CPU, the rule book is the program,
and the stacks of paper are the storage device.) The system is inside a room with a small
opening totheoutside. Through theopening appear slips ofpaperwithindecipherable sym-
bols. Thehuman findsmatching symbols intherule book, andfollows theinstructions. The
instructionsmayincludewritingsymbolsonnewslipsofpaper,findingsymbolsinthestacks,
rearrangingthestacks,andsoon. Eventually,theinstructionswillcauseoneormoresymbols
tobetranscribed ontoapieceofpaperthatispassedbacktotheoutsideworld.
Sofar, so good. But from the outside, wesee a system that is taking input in the form
of Chinese sentences and generating answers in Chinese that are as intelligent as those
in the conversation imagined by Turing.4 Searle then argues: the person in the room does
not understand Chinese (given). The rule book and the stacks of paper, being just pieces of
paper, do not