10.5 Afinite Turingmachinehasafiniteone-dimensionaltapeofcells,eachcellcontaining
one of a finite number of symbols. One cell has a read and write head above it. There is a
finitesetofstates themachine canbein, oneofwhichistheaccept state. Ateach timestep,
dependingonthesymbolonthecellundertheheadandthemachine scurrentstate,thereare
asetofactions wecanchoose from. Eachaction involves writingasymbol tothecellunder
the head, transitioning the machine to a state, and optionally moving the head left or right.
The mapping that determines which actions are allowed is the Turing machine s program.
Yourgoalistocontrolthemachineintotheacceptstate.
Represent the Turing machine acceptance problem as a planning problem. If you can
dothis,itdemonstratesthatdeterminingwhetheraplanningproblemhasasolutionisatleast
ashardasthe Turingacceptance problem,whichis PSPACE-hard.
10.6 Explain why dropping negative effects from every action schema in a planning prob-
lemresultsinarelaxedproblem.
10.7 Figure 10.4 (page 371) shows a blocks-world problem that is known as the Sussman
anomaly. The problem was considered anomalous because the noninterleaved planners of
SUSSMANANOMALY
the early 1970s could not solve it. Write a definition of the problem and solve it, either by
handorwithaplanningprogram. Anoninterleaved planneris aplannerthat,whengiventwo
subgoals G and G , produces either aplan for G concatenated with aplan for G , orvice
1 2 1 2
versa. Explainwhyanoninterleaved plannercannotsolvethisproblem.
10.8 Provethatbackwardsearchwith PDD Lproblemsiscomplete.
10.9 Constructlevels0,1,and2oftheplanninggraphfortheproblemin Figure10.1.
10.10 Provethefollowingassertions aboutplanning graphs:
a. Aliteralthatdoesnotappearinthefinallevelofthegraphcannotbeachieved.
Exercises 399
b. Thelevelcostofaliteralinaserialgraphisnogreaterthantheactualcostofanoptimal
planforachievingit.
10.11 The set-level heuristic (see page 382) uses a planning graph to estimate the cost of
achieving a conjunctive goal from 