 s height, respectively. They are defined by their relationships to the nodes John and Bill. Using these defined concepts, it is possible to 2 The node labeled BK23 represents the particular book that was referred to by the phrase the book. Discovering which particular book was meant by that phrase is similar to the problem of deciding on the correct referent for a pronoun, and it can be a very hard problem. These issues are discussed in Section 15.4. Weak Stot-and-Filler Structures 191 RE PTA et PPR RAEN OTERO SES represent such facts as that John s height increased, which we could not do before. (The number 72 increased?) Sometimes it is useful to introduce the arc valve to make this distinction clear. Thus we might use the following net to represent the fact that John is 6 feet tall and that he is taller than Bill: John Bill 4 greater-than H2 | Value 72 The procedures that operate on nets such as this can exploit the fact that some arcs, such as height, define new entities, while others, such as greater-than and value, merely describe relationships among existing entities. Another example of an important distinction we have missed is the difference between the properties of a node itself and the properties that a node simply holds and passes on to its instances. For example. it is a property of the node Person that it is a subclass of the node Mammal. But the node Person does not have as one of its parts a nose. Instances of the node Person do, and we want them to inherit it. It is difficult to capture these distinctions without assigning more structure to our notions of node, link, and value. In the next section, when we talk about frame systems, we do that. But first, we discuss a networkoriented solution to a simpler problem; this solution illustrates what can be done in the network model but at what price in complexity. 9.1.4 Partitioned Semantic Nets Suppose we want to represent simple quantified expressions in semantic nets. One way to do this is to partiti