ovalofmultiplecopies ofliterals iscalled factoring.
FACTORING
Forexample,ifweresolve (A B)with(A B),weobtain(A A),whichisreducedto
just A.
Thesoundnessoftheresolutionrulecanbeseeneasilybyconsidering theliteral(cid:3) that
i
is complementary to literal m in the other clause. If (cid:3) is true, then m is false, and hence
j i j
m 1 m j 1 m j 1 m n mustbetrue, because m 1 m n isgiven. If(cid:3) i is
false,then(cid:3) 1 (cid:3) i 1 (cid:3) i 1 (cid:3) k mustbetruebecause (cid:3) 1 (cid:3) k isgiven. Now
(cid:3) iseithertrueorfalse,sooneorotheroftheseconclusions holds exactly astheresolution
i
rulestates.
Whatis moresurprising about theresolution rule is that itforms the basis forafamily
ofcomplete inference procedures. Aresolution-based theorem prover can, foranysentences and in propositional logic, decide whether . The next two subsections explain
howresolution accomplishes this.
Conjunctivenormalform
Theresolution ruleapplies onlytoclauses (that is,disjunctions ofliterals), soitwouldseem
to be relevant only to knowledge bases and queries consisting of clauses. How, then, can
it lead to a complete inference procedure for all of propositional logic? The answer is that
every sentence of propositional logic is logically equivalent to a conjunction of clauses. A
CONJUNCTIVE sentence expressed as a conjunction of clauses is said to be in conjunctive normal form or
NORMALFORM
CNF (see Figure 7.14). We now describe a procedure for converting to CNF. We illustrate
the procedure by converting the sentence B (P P ) into CNF. The steps are as
1,1 1,2 2,1
follows:
1. Eliminate ,replacing with( ) ( ).
(B (P P )) ((P P ) B ).
1,1 1,2 2,1 1,2 2,1 1,1
2. Eliminate ,replacing with :
( B P P ) ( (P P ) B ).
1,1 1,2 2,1 1,2 2,1 1,1
9 Ifaclauseisviewedasasetofliterals,thenthisrestrictionisautomaticallyrespected. Usingsetnotationfor
clausesmakestheresolutionrulemuchcleaner,atthecostofintroducingadditionalnotation.
254 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
3. CN Frequires to appear only in literals, so