erwouldread Neu Ero ffnet. 6 Thisexampleisdueto Martin Kay.
908 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
The problem is that different languages categorize the world differently. Forexample,
the French word doux covers a wide range of meanings corresponding approximately to
the English words soft, sweet, and gentle. Similarly, the English word hard covers
virtually all uses of the German word hart (physically recalcitrant, cruel) and some uses
of the word schwierig (difficult). Therefore, representing the meaning of a sentence is
moredifficultfortranslationthanitisforsingle-language understanding. An Englishparsing
system could use predicates like Open(x), but for translation, the representation language
wouldhavetomakemoredistinctions,perhapswith Open (x)representingthe Offen sense
1
and Open (x)representing the Neu Ero ffnet sense. Arepresentation language that makes
2
allthedistinctions necessary forasetoflanguages iscalledaninterlingua.
INTERLINGUA
A translator (human or machine) often needs to understand the actual situation de-
scribed in the source, not just the individual words. For example, to translate the English
word him, into Korean, a choice must be made between the humble and honorific form, a
choicethatdepends onthesocialrelationship betweenthespeakerandthereferent of him. In Japanese, the honorifics are relative, so thechoice depends onthe social relationships be-
tweenthespeaker,thereferent,andthelistener. Translators(bothmachineandhuman)some-
timesfinditdifficult to makethis choice. Asanother example, totranslate The baseball hit
the window. It broke. into French, we must choose the feminine elle or the masculine il for it, so wemust decide whether it refers tothe baseball orthe window. Toget the
translation right,onemustunderstand physicsaswellaslanguage.
Sometimes there is no choice that can yield a completely satisfactory translation. For
example, an Italian love poem that uses the masculine ilsole (sun) and feminine laluna (moon) to symbo