 and variance respectively. The correlation r. which ranges between - I and + I, is a measure of similarity frequently used in vision applications. Other probabilistic measures often used in Al applications are based on the scatter of attribute values. These measures are related to the degree of clustering among the objects. In addition, conditional probabilities are sometimes used. For example, they may be used to measure the liklihood that a given X is a member. of class C. P(CJX), the conditional probability of C given an observed X These measures can establish the proximity of two or more objects. These and related measures are discussed further in Chapter 12. Qualitative Measures A number of distance measures based on qualitative variables (nominal, ordinal. and binary) have also been defined as well as methods which deal with mixtures of variables (Anderberg. 1973). We describe only a few such measures here to illustrate the basic forms they take. Measures between binary variables are best described usrng contingency tables like Table 10.1. The table entries there give the number of objects having attribute X or Y with corresponding value of I or 0. For example, if the objects are, animals. 196 Matching Tec In ques Chap 10 TABLE 10.1 CONTINGENCY TABLE FOR BINARY VARIABLES Sjriahic EII rt..t J X might he horned and Y might he lotte tailed In thiscase, the cittr a is the number ot animals having both horns and long tails Note that ii u + 0 + il. the total number of objects Various measures of association for such hinar ', arijhlc, have been delined For example a - a-i-il a + h e (I - it 0 a a Contingency tables are also useful for describing other qualitatise variables. both ordinal and nominal. Since the methods are similar to those for binar y variables. we omit the details here. Whate'er the variable types used in a measure, they should all he properk. scaled or normalized to prevent variables having large values from negating the eltects of smaller valued va