not stupid. Some minimal level of intelligence is, therefore, required for creativity. The reason is that in order to generate novel combinations, it helps to have a wealth of mental elements to work with. Without a sufficient supply of elements that can be combined in an original way, creativity is impossible (Begley, 2005). This view is also expressed by Dean Simonton, a psychologist from the University of California, Davis. He says (Simonton, 2004) that creativity is analogous to variation and selection in Darwinian evolution. The creator must generate many different novelties from which are selected those that satisfy some intellectual or aesthetic criteria. ... Underlying creativity, therefore, must be some process that generates these variations, made up of novel combinations of cognitive bits and pieces, as well as some way to choose among them. Creative people in diverse fields have said that this is exactly what it feels like they did. Chemist Linus Pauling described the need to have lots of ideas and throw away the bad ones.... You aren t going to have good ideas unless you have lots of ideas and some sort of principle of selection. Mathematician Henri Poincar recalled the feeling that accompanied a creative breakthrough: deas rose in crowds; felt them collide until pairs interlocked, so to speak, making a stable combination. By the next morning, had established the existence of a class of (previously unknown mathematical) functions. Einstein described how combinatory play seems to be the essential feature in creativity (Begley, 2005). One eternal question is the relationship between madness and creativity. To be sure, most people who are mentally ill are not especially creative. But history is full of creative geniuses who were insane, including Vincent van Gogh and Robert Schumann; those who committed suicide, such as Ernest Hemingway and Virginia Woolf; or who were paranoid, such as Sir Isaac Newton. In the largest study ever conducted of the connection