ers. We could also introduce more inter-
esting classes of gates, for example, by describing the technology (TTL,CMOS,and so on)
aswellastheinput output specification. Ifwewantedtodiscuss reliability ordiagnosis, we
would include the possibility that the structure of the circuit or the properties of the gates
might change spontaneously. Toaccount forstray capacitances, wewould need to represent
wherethewiresareontheboard.
Section12.1. Ontological Engineering 439
Ifwelookatthewumpusworld,similarconsiderationsapply. Althoughwedorepresent
time, ithasasimplestructure: Nothing happens except when theagent acts, andallchanges
areinstantaneous. Amoregeneral ontology, bettersuitedfortherealworld,wouldallowfor
simultaneouschangesextendedovertime. Wealsouseda Pit predicatetosaywhichsquares
have pits. We could have allowed for different kinds of pits by having several individuals
belonging to the class of pits, each having different properties. Similarly, we might want to
allow for other animals besides wumpuses. It might not be possible to pin down the exact
species from the available percepts, so we would need to build up a biological taxonomy to
helptheagentpredictthebehaviorofcave-dwellers fromscantyclues.
For any special-purpose ontology, it is possible to make changes like these to move
toward greater generality. Anobvious question then arises: doall these ontologies converge
on a general-purpose ontology? After centuries of philosophical and computational inves-
tigation, the answer is Maybe. In this section, we present one general-purpose ontology
that synthesizes ideas from those centuries. Two major characteristics of general-purpose
ontologies distinguish themfromcollections ofspecial-purpose ontologies: A general-purpose ontology should be applicable in more or less any special-purpose
domain (with the addition of domain-specific axioms). This means that no representa-
tionalissuecanbefinessedorbrushed underthecarpet. In any sufficiently demanding domain, different