name? The function should then read an input from the same line two spaces following the question mark (e.g., Susan), issue a line feed and carriage return, and then print Hello. Susan. What is your beat friend's name? As before, the user should type a name (e.g.. Joe). The program should then respond with Very interesting Joe is my best friend too! 3.10 Write an iterative function named nth-item that takes two arguments, a poitve integer and a list. The function returns the item in the nth position in the list. If the integer exceeds the number of elements in the list, it returns nil. For example. (nth-item 3 '(a b c d a f)) returns c. 3.11 Write a recursive function named power that takes two numeric arguments, it and m. The function computes the nth power of m (mj"). Be sure to account for the the case where it =0, that is m0 = I. For example. (power 4 3) returns 43 = 64. 3.12 Define a function called intersection which takes two lists as arguments. The functioty should return a list containing single occurrences of all elements which appear in both input lists. For example, (intersection (a b e g k It '(a c a g x y)) should return (a e g). 3.13 Write a new function called new-reverse that takes a list as argument. The function should return the list in reversed order. Do not use the LISP function reverse to define new-reverse. For example, (new-reverse '(a b If a) Of should return (I If a) b a). 3.14 Write an iterative function named sum-all using do that takes an integer n as argument and n-turns the sum of the integers from I to it. For example, (sum-all 5) should return 15. 46 LISP and Other Al Programming Languages Chap. 3 3.15 Write a function called sum-squares which uses mapca, to find the sum of the squares of a list of integers. The function takes a single list as its argument. Write a lambda function which mapcaz uses to find the square of the integers in the list. For example, (sum-squares (2 3 1 4)) should return 30. 3.16 Write a PROLOG program that 