essentially a curve viewed at a coarser level of granularity, resulting in a two-dimensional ribbonlike shape. Our world contains many objects that are usefully viewed as ribbons, e.g., rivers and bridges (Fig. 19.4). We can define several properties of curves as they relate to ribbons. For example, ALONG(, y) al CURVE(2) A RIBBON(y, 5), 52) A Vz: INSIDE(z, x) ~ ADJACENT(z, y) i Common Sense 415 SSAA LADNER RCA OIRO NEN ACROSS(x, y) = CURVE(x) ARIBBON(), 5), 59) A PERPENDICULAR(x, AXIS(y, 5;, 5)) A ADJACENT(x, y) A ADJACENT(4, 5,) A ADJACENT(,, 5) These definitions assume that we have defined the terms PERPENDICULAR, AXIS, and ADJACENT, and that we have supplied the common sense axiom that an object x is ADJACENT to an object y if any part of x is ADJACENT to y. A robot could use the ALONG relation to plot a course down the river s edge. It could similarly use the ACROSS relation to navigate to the other side of the river. Unfortunately, the ACROSS relation is not enough, as the robot might try to cross the river without using the bridge. The robot is still missing one fact: you can t walk on water. That s common sense. 19.2.3. Materials Why can t you walk on water? What happens if you turn a glass of water upside down? What happens when you pour water into the soil of a potted plant? Liquids present a particularly interesting and challenging domain to formalize. Hayes [1985] presented one attempt to describe them. Before we can write down any properties of liquids, we must decide what kinds of objects those properties will describe. In the last section, we defined spatial relations in terms of the spaces occupied by objects, not in terms of the objects themselves. It is particularly useful to take this point of view with liquids, since liquid objects can be split and merged so easily. For example, if we consider a river to be a piece of liquid, then what happens to the river when the liquid flows out into the ocean? Instead of continually changing our characterizat