nnections in the network One to train the network by showing it how to change a lightbulb (training shall consist of 500,000 repeated epochs) One to tell the media that the network learns just like a human does One to compare the performance of the resulting system with that of traditional symbolic approaches (optional) The Natural Language Group (5) One to collect sample utterances from the lightbulb domain One to build an English understanding program for the lightbulb-changing robot One to build a speech recognition system One to tell lightbulb jokes to the robot in between bulb-changing tasks One to build a language generation component so that the robot can make up its own lightbulb jokes The Learning Group (4) . One to collect twenty lightbulbs One to collect twenty near misses 532 Artificial Intelligence One to write a concept learning program that learns to identify lightbulbs One to show that the program found a local maximum in the space of lightbulb descriptions The Game-Playing Group (5) One to design a two-player game tree with the robot as one player and the lightbulb as the other One to write a minimax search algorithm that assumes optimal play on the part of the lightbulb One to build special-purpose hardware to enable 24-ply search One to enter the robot in a human lightbulb-changing tournament One to state categorically that lightbulb-changing is no longer considered Al The Psychological Group (5) One to build an apparatus which will time lightbulb-changing performance One to gather and run subjects One to mathematically model the behavior One to call the expert systems group One to adjust the resulting system, so that it drops the right number of bulbs REFERENCES Ades, A. and M. Steedman. 1982, On the order of words. Linguistics and Philosophy 4. 517-558. Agre, P. E. and D. Chapman. 1987. Pengi: An implementation of a theory of activity. In Proceedings AAAI-87, 268-272. Aho, A., 3. Hopcroft, and J. Ullman. 1983. Data Structures and Aigorithms. Rea