hakey robotics project at the Stanford Research Institute
(SRI). The latter project, discussed further in Chapter 25, was the first to demonstrate the
completeintegration oflogicalreasoning andphysicalactivity.
Minsky supervised a series of students who chose limited problems that appeared to
require intelligence tosolve. Theselimited domains became known asmicroworlds. James
MICROWORLD
Slagle s SAINT program (1963) wasable tosolveclosed-form calculus integration problems
typical of first-year college courses. Tom Evans s ANALOGY program (1968) solved geo-
metricanalogyproblemsthatappearin IQtests. Daniel Bobrow s STUDENT program(1967)
solvedalgebrastoryproblems,suchasthefollowing:
If the number of customers Tom gets is twice the square of 20 percent of the number
of advertisementshe runs, and the numberof advertisements he runs is 45, what is the
numberofcustomers Tomgets?
20 Chapter 1. Introduction
Blue
Red
Red Green
Blue
Green
Green
Red
Figure1.4 Ascenefromtheblocksworld. SHRDLU(Winograd,1972)hasjustcompleted
thecommand Findablockwhichistallerthantheoneyouareholdingandputitinthebox. The most famous microworld was the blocks world, which consists of a set of solid blocks
placed on a tabletop (or more often, a simulation of a tabletop), as shown in Figure 1.4.
A typical task in this world is to rearrange the blocks in a certain way, using a robot hand
that can pick up one block at a time. The blocks world was home to the vision project of
David Huffman (1971), the vision and constraint-propagation work of David Waltz (1975),
the learning theory of Patrick Winston (1970), the natural-language-understanding program
of Terry Winograd(1972), andtheplannerof Scott Fahlman(1974).
Early work building on the neural networks of Mc Culloch and Pitts also flourished.
The work of Winograd and Cowan (1963) showed how a large number of elements could
collectively represent anindividual concept, withacorresponding increaseinrobustness and
parallelism. Hebb s learning methods were