imating the distance to the goal, without taking into account the cost of reaching the two states. Thus, if two states have the same heuristic value, but one of them was more expensive to achieve, the Best First Search algorithm has no way of discriminating between the two. As we shall see later (in Chapter 5), incorporating this cost and some conditions on the heuristic will ensure the finding of optimal solutions. FIGURE 3.5 Best First Search chooses a solution with five moves. 3.2.3 Space Complexity We have already seen that the search frontier, represented by the list OPEN, grows linearly for DFS and exponentially for Breadth First Search. The search frontier for Best First Search depends upon the accuracy of the heuristic function. If the heuristic function is accurate then the search will home in onto the goal directly, and the frontier will only grow linearly. Otherwise, the search algorithm may go down some path, change its mind, and sprout another branch in the search tree (Winston, 1977). Figure 3.6 depicts the frontiers for the three algorithms being discussed. Empirically, it has been found though that for most interesting problems, it is difficult to devise accurate heuristic functions, and consequently the search frontier also grows exponentially in best first searches. DFS frontier grows oe Best First Search frontier depends upon the heuristic function frontier grows exponentially ae a (ere ) FIGURE 3.6 The Search Frontier is an indication of space requirement. 3.2.4 Time Complexity Like space complexity, time complexity too is dependent upon the accuracy of the heuristic function. With a perfect heuristic function, the search will find the goal in linear time. Again, since it is very difficult to find very good functions for interesting enough problems, the time required too tends to be exponential in practice. In both space and time complexity, we have pegged the performance on the accuracy of the heuristic function. In fact, by measuring performanc