(b) Dotted line shows
1
modelsof (nopitin 2,2 ).
2
tomeanthatthesentence entailsthesentence . Theformaldefinitionofentailmentisthis: ifandonlyif,ineverymodelinwhich istrue, isalsotrue. Usingthenotationjust
introduced, wecanwrite ifandonlyif M( ) M( ).
(Notethedirection ofthe here: if ,then isastronger assertionthan : itrulesout
more possible worlds.) The relation of entailment is familiar from arithmetic; we are happy
with the idea that the sentence x 0 entails the sentence xy 0. Obviously, in any model
wherexiszero,itisthecasethatxy iszero(regardlessofthevalueof y).
Wecanapplythesamekindofanalysistothewumpus-worldreasoning examplegiven
in the preceding section. Consider the situation in Figure 7.3(b): the agent has detected
nothing in 1,1 andabreezein 2,1 . Thesepercepts, combined withtheagent s knowledge
of the rules of the wumpus world, constitute the KB. The agent is interested (among other
things) in whether the adjacent squares 1,2 , 2,2 , and 3,1 contain pits. Each of the three
squaresmightormightnotcontainapit,so(forthepurposes ofthisexample)thereare23 8
possible models. Theseeightmodelsareshownin Figure7.5.2
The KB can be thought of as a set of sentences or as a single sentence that asserts all
the individual sentences. The KB is false in models that contradict what the agent knows for example, the KB is false in any model in which 1,2 contains a pit, because there is
no breeze in 1,1 . Thereare in fact just three models inwhich the KBis true, and these are
2 Althoughthefigureshowsthemodelsaspartialwumpusworlds,theyarereallynothingmorethanassignments
oftrue andfalsetothesentences thereisapitin 1,2 etc. Models,inthemathematicalsense,donotneedto
have orrible airywumpusesinthem.
242 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
shownsurroundedbyasolidlinein Figure7.5. Nowletusconsidertwopossibleconclusions: Thereisnopitin 1,2 . 1 Thereisnopitin 2,2 . 2
Wehavesurrounded themodelsof and withdotted linesin Figures7.5(a)and 7.5(b),
1 2
respectively. Byinspection, weseethefollowing:
i