e point in the scene corresponding to the point in the
imageat(x,y).
Note that both components of the optical flow, v (x,y) and v (x,y), are zero at the
x y
FOCUSOF point x T T ,y T T . This point is called the focus of expansion of the flow
EXPANSION x z y z
field. Suppose we change the origin in the x y plane to lie at the focus of expansion; then
(cid:2) (cid:2)
the expressions for optical flow take on a particularly simple form. Let (x,y ) be the new
coordinates definedbyx (cid:2) x T T ,y (cid:2) y T T . Then
x z y z
(cid:2) (cid:2)
x T y T
(cid:2) (cid:2) z (cid:2) (cid:2) z
v (x,y ) , v (x,y ) .
x Z(x(cid:2),y(cid:2)) y Z(x(cid:2),y(cid:2))
Notethatthere isascale-factor ambiguity here. Ifthecamerawasmoving twiceasfast, and
everyobjectinthescenewastwiceasbigandattwicethedistance tothecamera,theoptical
flowfieldwouldbeexactlythesame. Butwecanstillextractquiteusefulinformation.
1. Suppose you are a fly trying to land on a wall and you want to know the time-to-
contact at the current velocity. This time is given by Z T . Note that although the
z
instantaneous optical flow field cannot provide either the distance Z or the velocity
component T , it can provide the ratio of the two and can therefore be used to control
z
thelanding approach. Thereisconsiderable experimental evidence thatmanydifferent
animalspeciesexploitthiscue.
2. Consider two points at depths Z , Z , respectively. We may not know the absolute
1 2
value of either of these, but by considering the inverse of the ratio of the optical flow
magnitudes atthese points, wecandetermine thedepthratio Z Z . Thisisthecueof
1 2
motion parallax, one we use when we look out of the side window of a moving car or
trainandinferthattheslowermovingpartsofthelandscape arefartheraway.
Section24.4. Reconstructing the3DWorld 949
Perceived object
Left image Right image
Right Left
Disparity
(a) (b)
Figure 24.16 Translating a camera parallel to the image plane causes image features to
move in the camera plane. The disparity i