ders, they may decide to take their money elsewhere. So it is desirable that the bidders
haveadominantstrategy. Recallthat dominant meansthatthestrategy worksagainst all
other strategies, which in turn means that an agent can adopt it without regard for the other
strategies. Anagentwithadominantstrategy canjustbid,without wastingtimecontemplat-
ing other agents possible strategies. A mechanism where agents have a dominant strategy
is called a strategy-proof mechanism. If, as is usually the case, that strategy involves the
STRATEGY-PROOF
biddersrevealingtheirtruevalue, v ,thenitiscalledatruth-revealing, ortruthful,auction;
TRUTH-REVEALING i
REVELATION theterm incentivecompatibleisalsoused. Therevelation principlestatesthatanymecha-
PRINCIPLE
Section17.6. Mechanism Design 681
nismcanbetransformedintoanequivalenttruth-revealing mechanism,sopartofmechanism
designisfindingtheseequivalent mechanisms.
It turns out that the ascending-bid auction has most of the desirable properties. The
bidder with the highest value v gets the goods at a price of b d, where b is the highest
i o o
bid among all the other agents and d is the auctioneer s increment.9 Bidders have a simple
dominantstrategy: keepbiddingaslongasthecurrentcostisbelowyourv . Themechanism
i
isnotquitetruth-revealing, because thewinningbidderrevealsonlythathisv b d;we
i o
havealowerboundonv butnotanexactamount.
i
A disadvantage (from the point of view of the seller) of the ascending-bid auction is
that it can discourage competition. Suppose that in a bid for cell-phone spectrum there is
one advantaged company that everyone agrees would be able to leverage existing customers
and infrastructure, and thus can make alarger profit than anyone else. Potential competitors
can see that they have no chance in an ascending-bid auction, because the advantaged com-
pany can always bid higher. Thus, the competitors may not enter at all, and the advantaged
companyendsupwinningatthereserveprice.
Anothernegativepropertyofthe English