, wewrite y x Loves(x,y).
Theorderofquantification isthereforeveryimportant. Itbecomesclearerifweinsertparen-
theses. x( y Loves(x,y)) says that everyone has a particular property, namely, the prop-
erty that they love someone. On the other hand, y ( x Loves(x,y)) says that someone in
theworldhasaparticularproperty, namelythepropertyofbeinglovedbyeverybody.
Someconfusion can arise when two quantifiers are used with the same variable name.
Considerthesentence x (Crown(x) ( x Brother(Richard,x))).
Here the x in Brother(Richard,x) is existentially quantified. The rule is that the variable
belongs to the innermost quantifier that mentions it; then it will not be subject to any other
quantification. Another way to think of it is this: x Brother(Richard,x) is a sentence
about Richard(thathehasabrother), notabout x;soputtinga xoutsideithasnoeffect. It
couldequallywellhavebeenwritten z Brother(Richard,z). Becausethiscanbeasource
ofconfusion, wewillalwaysusedifferentvariablenameswithnestedquantifiers.
Connectionsbetween and Thetwoquantifiers areactually intimately connected witheachother, through negation. As-
serting that everyone dislikes parsnips is the same as asserting there does not exist someone
wholikesthem,andviceversa: x Likes(x,Parsnips) isequivalent to x Likes(x,Parsnips).
Wecangoonestepfurther: Everyonelikesicecream meansthatthereisnoonewhodoes
notlikeicecream: x Likes(x,Ice Cream) isequivalent to x Likes(x,Ice Cream).
Because isreallyaconjunctionovertheuniverseofobjectsand isadisjunction, itshould
notbesurprising that theyobey De Morgan s rules. The De Morgan rules forquantified and
unquantified sentences areasfollows: x P x P (P Q) P Q x P x P (P Q) P Q x P x P P Q ( P Q) x P x P P Q ( P Q).
Thus, we do not really need both and , just as wedo not really need both and . Still,
readability ismoreimportant thanparsimony, sowewillkeepbothofthequantifiers.
Section8.2. Syntaxand Semanticsof First-Order Logic 299
8.2.7 Equality
First-order logic includes onemorewayto