s this are called attributed relational graphs (ATRs). Such a graph C) is defined formally as a sextuple G = (N,B,A,G,.(;5) where N = ("1, -. fl} is a set of nodes. .4 = ian1 , ...., an} is an alphabet of node attributes, B = {b1. b, . . . , b,,J is a set of directed branches lb = (n,.n)). and Gn and Gb are functions for generating node and branch attributes respectively. When the representations are graph structures like ARGs, a similarity measure may be computed as the total cost of transforming one graph into the other. For example. the similarity of two ARGs may be determined with the following steps: (I) Decompose the ARGs into basic suhgraphs, each having a depth of one, t2 compute the minimum cost to transform either basic ARG into the other one suhgraphby-suhgraph, and (3) compute the total transformation cost from the sum of the suhgraph costs. An ARC) may be transformed by the three basic operations of node or branch deletions. insertions, or substitutions, where each operation is given a cost ha.;'ed on computation time or other factors. Finding the minimal cost to transform one ARC) into another is known to he an NP complete. problem. However, heuristic solutions using d ynamic programming methods have been developed which have time complexity of 0(rn2n21rn + a)) where m and n are the number of nodes in the two ARCs. For details regarding such computation procedures the reader is referred to Eshera and Fu (l94). 10.6 FUZZY MATCHING ALGORITHMS Fuzzy matching is accomplished by computing a fuzzy distance or similarity measure between two objects such as those given in Section 10.3. A similarity score of I corresponds to an identical match while a score near 0 corresponds to maximal dissimilarity. For example, suppose two objects say o and o, are each described by the same set of k attributes A,. I = I .....k. Each attribute may be regardod Sec. 10.7 The RETE Matching Algorithm 205 as a fuzzy set, and a metric similar to equation 10.6 may then be used to ma