re are no children. After the traversal ends, it is possible that there are pairs of nodes X and Y in G such that YCX. For every such pair, node Y is removed from G before returning G. ---Q 2 . E ee e FIGURE 14.28 The nodes of a taxonomy explored by the algorithm MostSpecificSubsumers. The black nodes are the nodes that subsume the concept d represented by the square. Of these, the most specific ones are shown by the enclosing shaded rectangle. The white nodes are the ones inspected by the algorithm and discarded. MostGeneralSubsumees (taxonomy, 5s, d) 1 ge 2 while not empty(s) 3 do for every node n in s 4 Remove n from s S if Subsumes(d, Desc(n)) then Add n to g 7 else Add all children of n in taxonomy to s 8 if there exist two nodes x and y in s such that Subsumes (Desc (x), Dese(y)) 9 then Remove y from g 10 return g FIGURE 14.29 The procedure to find the most specific subsumees of a given description d in a taxonomy. We assume a function Desc(node) that returns the description of a node, and a function Subsumes that implements structure matching on two descriptions. The sets S and G are the nodes that have to be connected to the new concept dey represented by the node anew. The first task, as shown in the algorithm Classify described above, is to break all links between nodes in S and nodes in G. After that, s-A links are established between Anew and all the nodes in S and in G, as shown in Figure 14.31. 7 c s . . , 2, a a D eA v 4a oo) se o A x a , A , ry ' ' t , ab 9 uy , F uN mA ! 1 m4 ' ' noo, oN yo 4 O 0 , 1 A Sy ' i ww ' ee 2: Pe 1 4 n y ' ' H os r o4 sot oN 0 8 . e : i 1, e 9 y i . 9 t) bd - FIGURE 14.30 The algorithm MostGeneralSubsumees begins by exploring the forest below the set S, represented by the black and white nodes. The black nodes are the ones subsumed by d, and the set G is the set of highest black nodes, as shown. o. . rN a an nngee NS . G ----- O- - NS FIGURE 14.31 The new node is inserted into the taxonomy by linking it to nodes in S and i