are not common components of expert systems. When they are provided, they are used to assist in building and refining the knowledge base. Since learning is treated in great detail in later chapters. no description is given here. 15.3 NONPRODUCTION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURES Other, less common expert system architectures (although no less important) are those based on nonproduction rule-representation schemes. Instead of rules, these systems employ more structured representation schemes like associative or semantic networks, frame and rule structures, decision trees, or 'even specialized networks like neural networks. In this section we examine some typical system architectures based on these methods. Associative or Semantic Network Architectures Associative or semantic network representation schemes were discussed in Chapter 7. Front description there, we know that an associative network is a network made up of nodes connected by directed arcs. The nodes represent objects, attributes. i concepts, or other basic entities, and the arcs, which are labeled, descr be the relationship between the two nodes they connect. Special network links include the IS\ and HASPART links which designate an object as being a certain type of ohec (belonging to a class of oh jects) and as being a subpart of another object. respeeitcl\ Associatiye network representations ale especially useful in depicting hk'rjrchical knowledge structures. where property inheritance is common. Objects belonging to a class of other objects may inherit many of the characteristics of the class. Inheritance can also he treated as a form of detault reasoning. This facilitates the storage of information when shared by many objects as well as the inkrermeing process. Associative network representations are not a popular form of representation for standard expert systems. More often, these network representations are used in natural language or computer vision systems or in conjunction with some other form of represent