and Voltage(7 ) . For the sake of brevity, we will write these as T, and T -. Table 17.8The working bulb model Mode R Bulb OK - On OK - On OK - - Off OK - - Off OK 0 0 Off OK 0 Off OK 0 Off OK i 0 Off OK - 0 Off The bulb is modelled by the relation depicted in Table 17.8. We have included the mode OK in the relation. Later when we extend the behaviour description to the fault mode, we can extend the table for the mode Broken. The other columns are L and R for the two terminals the values of which are voltages, and Bulb for the state of the bulb which can take two values, On or Off. The value 0 for Voltage means that the battery voltage is not being transmitted to it. The astute reader would have observed that this does not conform to the no-function-in-structure principle. In particular, this model would not work for bulbs connected in series, since that would need a denser quantity space that would allow for a voltage drop across each bulb. The corresponding working model for the wire says that when the wire is on the OK mode, then the voltage at both its ends is the same. Table 17.9 The working wire model Mode tf R Wire OK Connected OK - - Connected OK 0 0 Connected Each of the bulbs B; has the associated terminals TB; and BB; referring to the terminal on top of B; and bottom of B; respectively in Figure 17.16. Likewise, the two terminals of each wire W; are named LWand RW; for the left end and the right end respectively. Then our system description contains statements like RW, TB, to assert the fact that the top terminal of bulb B, is connected to the right end of wire W;. In a similar way, RW, LW3 says that the right end of the wire W, is connected to the left end of the wire W3. These statements are really short forms for the statements Voltage(RW,) Voltage(TB,) and Voltage(RW;) Voltage(LW3). The reader is encouraged to write the complete system description SD for the above circuit. The observations are B, Off, Bo Off, B3 On . GDE constructs the following minim