st time traveler to France will conclude that all French people speak French after having spoken only to one Frenchman named Henri'? At the same time, our traveler would not incorrectly conclude that all Frenchmen are named Henri! Examples like this emphasize the fact that inductive learning is much more than undirected search for general hypotheses. Indeed, it should be clear that inductive generalization and rule formulation are performed in some context and with a purpose. They are performed to satisfy some objectives and, therefore, are guided by related background or other world knowledge. If this were not so, our generalizations would be on shaky ground and our class descriptions might be no more than a complete listing of all the examples we had observed. The inductive process can be described symbolically through the use of predicates P and Q. If we observe the repeated occurrence of events Pta1), P(a). we generalize by inductively concluding that Yx P(x), i.e. if (canary_ I color yellow), (canary-2 color yellow).....(canary.,,k color yellow) then (forail x (if canary x)(x color yellow)). More generally, when we observe the implications See. 183 Some Definitions P(al) Q(b1) P(a2) -9 Q(b) P(a) - Q(bk) we generalize by concluding V.y P(x) - Q(v). In forming a generalized hypothesis about a complete (possibly infinite) class after observing only a fraction of the members, we are making an uncertain conclusion. Even so, we have all found it to be a most essential form of learning. Our reliance on and proven success with inductive learning has motivated much research in this area. Numerous systems have been developed to investigate different forms of such learning referred to. as learning by observation, learning by discovery, supervised learning, learning from examples, and unsupervised learning.. We have already seen two examples of weak inductive learning paradigms in the previous chapter: learning automata and genetic algorithms. In this chapter we will see d