ecutive is the system that interacts with the real time controller of the spacecraft. It is EXEC that coordinates the activities of multiple subsystems during plan execution and takes advantage of the flexible plan generated to execute it at an opportune time in the planned window. EXEC also monitors the plan execution, exploring alternative ways to achieve the task. When new plans are needed, it describes the state and the goal to the mission manager and requests for a plan. The executive automates the decomposition of goals into smaller activities that can be executed concurrently in different subsystems of the spacecraft. EXEC plays the main coordination role between all flight software modules, both internal and external to the RA. The two main aspects of its behaviour are the following: Periodic planning over extended missions It periodically asks the PS for new tasks and incorporates the actions into the tasks being executed. Robust plan execution The responsibility of successfully executing plans in the face of uncertainties and failures lies with the EXEC. It exploits the flexibility of the plan supplied by PS to tune it to the existing conditions. The high level algorithm followed by EXEC is depicted in Figure 10.28. Plan failure ( standby aaani Get plan from PS jOG Standby plan request J Success: Next horizon plan request Planning assumptions a , J violated Plan failure ----- OP ) 2 lan running FIGURE 10.28 The smart executive is either executing plans in the current horizon, asking for more plans, or in a standby mode waiting for plans to be repaired. Mission Manager(MM) The mission manager is a system that generates short term planning goals, based on the long term mission profile. The Deep Space mission profile contained long term periodic goals like taking images of objects, and health maintenance goals such as performing an engine calibration activity within a 24-hour window, before approaching the target. The MM system accepts goals from EXEC and dec