ng until it reaches the bottom of the hole, because that is its termination
condition. In spite of the control uncertainty, all possible trajectories of the robot terminate
incontactwiththebottomofthehole thatis,unlesssurfaceirregularitiescausetherobotto
stickinoneplace.
As one might imagine, the problem of constructing fine-motion plans is not trivial; in
fact, it is a good deal harder than planning with exact motions. One can either choose a
fixed number of discrete values foreach motion oruse the environment geometry to choose
directions that givequalitatively different behavior. Afine-motion planner takes asinput the
configuration-spacedescription,theangleofthevelocityuncertaintycone,andaspecification
ofwhatsensing ispossible fortermination (surface contact inthiscase). Itshould produce a
multistepconditional planorpolicythatisguaranteed tosucceed, ifsuchaplanexists.
Ourexample assumes that the planner has an exact model ofthe environment, but itis
possible to allow forbounded errorinthis modelas follows. Iftheerror canbedescribed in
termsofparameters,thoseparameterscanbeaddedasdegreesoffreedomtotheconfiguration
space. In the last example, if the depth and width of the hole were uncertain, we could add
them as two degrees of freedom to the configuration space. It is impossible to move the
robot in these directions in the configuration space or to sense its position directly. But
boththoserestrictionscanbeincorporated whendescribingthisproblemasan FM Pproblem
by appropriately specifying control and sensor uncertainties. This gives a complex, four-
dimensional planning problem, but exactly the same planning techniques can be applied.
Section25.6. Moving 997
Noticethatunlikethedecision-theoretic methodsin Chapter17,thiskindofrobustapproach
results in plans designed for the worst-case outcome, rather than maximizing the expected
qualityoftheplan. Worst-caseplansareoptimalinthedecision-theoretic senseonlyiffailure
duringexecution ismuchworsethananyoftheothercostsinvo