arrive from its other parent Bz. When a matching token does arrive then Bz would have assembled the complete matching LHS for rule RuleName. The rule can then be added to the Conflict Set. Each alpha node has one parent, but may have many children. The parent has to be an alpha node or the root. The children of alpha nodes can be either alpha or beta nodes. Beta nodes, on the other hand, have two parents 2. They could be either alpha nodes or beta nodes. Beta nodes have one or more children, which are either beta nodes or rule nodes. When a beta node has collected all the tokens for satisfying the LHS of the rule below, it passes the tokens to the rule node, which creates an instance of the rule to add to the Conflict Set. i (card-rank player south) ND (turn ofsouth) Rule name Figure 6.21 Beta nodes or join nodes combine two tokens when the variable condition (if any) matches and allow them to pass down. In the figure, there are two tokens (card-rank player south) and (turn of south) . Note that there are two copies of the first token, one at Bz and one at By. The top half of the Rete net sorts or classifies the tokens according the test patterns in the rules. It acts like a switch that routes tokens towards their target rules. The bottom half of the network assimilates the tokens required by a rule, and hands them over to the rule node. 6.6.7 Execution First the rules are compiled into the network. Then, the following cycle ensues. 1. Insert a bunch of tokens into the root (token in) node of the net. If there are no tokens, then exit the Match phase. Each token traverses down the matching alpha nodes and waits for its partner at a beta node. If multiple beta nodes want the token then copies are made. When the partner of the token arrives, they form a compound token and travel down together. The last stage is the rule node where the matching tokens of a rule arrive. 2. The conflict resolution strategy is applied and a rule is selected to fire. If the Conflict Set is