as is given to any special area or approach. The treatment of knowledge acquisition and machine learning is much more comprehensive than that found in other introductory texts on Al. And computer vision, natural language processing, and pattern recognition are also covered in some depth. A significant part of the text is devoted to the important topics of knowledge representation, including methods of dealing with uncertain, incomplete, and vague knowledge (such as methods related to nonmoflotonic lcgics and commonsense reasoning). Currently, there is a debate being waged among artificial intelligence practitioners over the best approach to Al computations: the neural network approach vs. the symbolic computation approach. We recognize the importance of this debate because the future direction of Al will be determined by its outcome. But whatever the outcome, the successes of symbolic computation on knowledge structures suggest that this approach will last for some time to come. Because of that, most of the text has been devoted to this approach. Even so, the recent successes of the biologically inspired neural network approach suggests that there is an important place in Al for systems based on these paradigms. Consequently we have included introductory material on this important subject as well. This book is about the differen areas of study which make up the field of Al. abqut the techniques and tools of Al. and about the products Al has produced. The book is also about knowledge, an essential component of Al. For this reason, the material has been organized around knowledge and the roles it plays in each of the component areas of study. The book has been divided into five parts or general topic areas related to 'knowledge: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence, Knowledge Representation, Knowledge Organization and Manipulation. Perception and Communication, and Knowledge Acquisition. Part I is a general introductory section composed of three chapters. Chapter I