). links (ako a person) (ako b person) (ako c person) (male c) (parent of b a) (brother_ofcb) +) Again, we leave the remaining details as an exercise. Before leaving these examples, the reader should consider what learning methods and tools have been used from the previous two sections, what types of bias have been used to limit the search, and what methods of generalization have been employed in the learning process. 18.7 SUMMARY Inductive learning is accomplished through inductive inference, the process of inferring a common class from instances, reasoning from parts to the whole or from the individual to the universal. Learning a concept through induction requires generalization, a search through a lattice of hypotheses. Practical induction is based on the use of methods that constrain or direct the search process. This is made possible through the use of bias which is used to reduce the size of the hypothesis space or to impose preferential selection on the hypotheses. Chap. 18 Exercises A number of techniques are available for either selective or constructive generalization, including changing constants to variables, dropping conjunctive conditions, adding a disjunctive alternative, closing the interval, climbing a generalization tree. and generating chain properties, among others. Specialization is achieved through the inverse operation to generalization as well as some other methods like including exceptions. An example of an inductive learning system was presented in some detail. This system constructs concept descriptions from positive and negative examples presented as attribute lists. The descriptions are created as clusters or disjuncts by first generalizing conjunctive descriptions from the positive training examples until an inconsistent negative example is experienced. This separates the clusters to produce compatible, disjunctive descriptions. The system can also learn structural descriptions in the form of network representations. It is possible to 