 GirlChild. Discuss the pros and cons of the two approaches. 14. The structure matching rule looks for corresponding components in dsyp ANd Asuper- We can extend the set of structure matching rules to take more than one component as argument. Consider the task of handling D-EXISTS 1 :Sibling Parent and AND EXISTS 2 :Sibling ALL :Sibling Parent which can be rewritten as AND DEXISTS 2 :Sibling Thing ALL :Sibling Parent . Write a rule that will take dsupe- D-EXISTS n rd and dgyp AND D-EXISTS m re ALL r f , write a rule to answer the question whether (dgyp super). Discuss the pros and cons of using such a rule. 15. Is any of the two classes rea MusicLover and beenutShroeder defined in the chapter, subsumed by the other? 16. Description Logic 1. Write a program to create a knowledge base of concepts. Allow the user to create new concepts from old by extending them with more constraints, and using AND to combine concepts. The descriptions may have to be converted into normal form. Implement the Structure Matching algorithm. 17. Description Logic 2. Given a set of concepts read from a file, construct a Taxonomy. Display the graph on a screen and allow users to read concept definitions attached to nodes on demand. Accept a new concept and classify it into the taxonomy. 18. Description Logic 3. A-Box reasoning. Given a database of facts, extract concepts that individuals belong to, including the propagation to ferret out information. Attach them to the most specific concept in the Taxonomy. Accept new information of the kind (ad) and propagate the information. The system should be able to answer queries like (1) cd, (2) find all classes that an individual c belongs to, and (3) find all individuals that belong to a class 19. Write an OWL statement to assert that the classes 9symphonies and symphoniesOfBeethoven defined in the chapter represent the same sets of elements. 20. Given a set of objects O, show that (O", O ) is a formal concept where O' att(O) and O " obj(att(O)). 2