5). The Chomsky Hierarchy of Generative Grammars Noarn Chomskv defined a hierarchy of grammars he called types 0. I. 2. and 3. Type 0 grammar is the most general. It is obtained by making the simple restriction that r cannot be the empty string in the rewrite form xv: xiv:. This broad generality requires that a computer having the power of a Turing machine be used to recognize sentences of type 0. The next level down in generality is obtained with type I grammars which are called context-sensitive grammars. They have the added restriction that the length of the string on the right-hand side of the rewrite rule must he at least as long as the string on the left-hand side. Furthermore, in productions of the form xv: - xw:, v must be a single nonterminal symbol and w. a nonempty string. Typical rewrite rules for type I grammars take the forms S - as S -. a AB AB - BA a A - ab a A -. aa where the capitalized letters are nonterminals and the lower case letters terminals. The third type. the type 2 grammar, is known as a context-free grammar. It is characterized by rules with the general form <symbol> <symbol!> <synibolk> where k I and where the left-hand side is a single nonterminal symbol. A xv: where .4 is a single nonterminal. Productions for this type take forms such as S - as S - ash S -. a B S - a AB A a B b The final and most restrictive type is type 3. It is also called a finite state or regular grammar. whose rules are characterized by the forms A a B A a The languages generated by these grammars are also termed types 0. I (contextsensitive). 2 (context-free), and 4 (regular) corresponding to the grammars which generate them. The regular and context-free languages have been the most widely studied 234 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 and best understood. For example, formal programmtnglanguages are typically based on context-free languages. Consequently, much of the work in human language understanding has been related to these two types. This is understanda