le of the use of these tenses, consider the CD representation shown in Fig. 10.3 (taken from Schank [1973]) of the sentence Since smoking can kill you, I stopped. Strong Siot-and-Filler Structures 211 The vertical causality link indicates that smoking kills one R one one. Since it is marked c, however, we know only that INGEST ~ smoke cigarette smoking can kill one, not that it necessarily does. The I horizontal causality link indicates that it is that first Tip I causality that made me stop smoking. The qualification e INGEST += smoke ~2] | ly, attached to the dependency between I and INGEST cigarette indicates that the smoking (an instance of INGESTING) >> dead has stopped and that the stopping happened in the past. FL ative There are three important ways in which representing knowledge using the conceptual dependency model facilitates reasoning with the knowledge: Fig. 10.3 Using Conceptual Tenses 1. Fewer inference rules are needed than would be required if knowledge were not broken down into primitives. 2. Many inferences are already contained in the representation itself. 3. The initial structure that is built to represent the information contained in one sentence will have holes that need to be filled. These holes can serve as an attention focuser for the program that must understand ensuing sentences. Each of these points merits further discussion. The first argument in favor of representing knowledge in terms of CD primitives rather than in the higherlevel terms in which it is normally described is that using the primitives makes it easier to describe the inference rules by which the knowledge can be manipulated. Rules need only be represented once for each primitive ACT rather than once for every word that describes that ACT. For example, all of the following verbs involve a transfer of ownership of an object: e Give e Take John Bill Steal * Donate Tf any of them occurs, then inferences about who Poss-by now has the object and who once had the object (and 