hat makes the receptors) then the set of all such N-dimensional points makes up for what is termed as a Shape Space. A point in this shape space defines the shape of the antibody receptor which in turn decides how well it binds (complementarily) with the antigen. Thus, an antibody a in a shape space S can be represented as a set of N co-ordinates <a ,@7,43,...,ay>. If we plot these points on the N-dimensional space, we may imagine that all points that lie within a circle or sphere of a small radius would have almost the same level of complementarity (affinity). eas shown in the Fig. 24.8 is called as the cross-reactivity threshold. The volume Vp of recognition which could be a circle, a sphere or some other shape selected based on the application at hand, is referred to as the recognition region. Thus all antibodies within a volume Vy, will cross react with the antigens having epitopes complementary to the paratopes within this region. Fig. 24.8 A 3-D Shape Space | | Artificial Immune Systems 487 TCT TS Shape spaces could be of different forms based on the nature of the values the co-ordinates assume. For instance a Real-valued shape space could have real valued co-ordinates. A point in such a space would be represented by a real-valued vector. Likewise one may also imagine an Integer shape-space, Symbolic shapespace and a Hamming shape-space, points on each of these being expressed as an Integer Vector (eg. [2, 3, 4, 6]), a Symbolic Vector (eg. [name, age, sex, race]) and a Hamming Vector (eg. [up, down, slanting]) respectively. Affinity can be assumed to be given by the distance between two vectors one that decides the shape of an antigen A, and the other the shape of an antibody receptor A,. Euclidean, Manhattan or some such distance measuring technique could be used to find the affinities. Table 24.1 shows some such distances. Table 24.1 Some Distance Measuring Techniques L Euclidean Distance D, art > (Ay; - Ay) = S ist L Manhattan Distance Dy = SIA, ~ Agi | i= 