orm of representation for standard expert systems. More often, these network representations are used in natural language or computer vision systems or in conjunction with some other form of representation. One expert system based on the use of an associative network representation is CASNET (Causal Associational Network), which was developed at Ruteers University during the early 1970s (Weiss et al, 1978). CASNET is used to diagnose and recommend treatment for glaucoma, one of the leading causes of blindness. The network in CASNET is divided into three planes or types ol knowledge as depicted in Figure 15.4. The different knowledge types are Patient observations (tests, symptoms, other signs) Pathophvsiokgical states Disease cate tries 23338 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 Angk 5IOre Disease categories Acute angle Ci,rsc angle ( I/I \ Ciasstcation links / / F 1 ! / (I \Cuulink ( pathop s h la y t t e t s O Cleel / / I c.^ Ang" ii I I Asioci.iional iinksti 1 LL LI I t7i Patient observations pg,n acuit F lop 45 mn, TESTS Figure 15.4 Levels of network description in CASNET. (From Artificial Intelligence journal. Vol. II p. 148. 1978. By permission.) Patient observations are provided by the user during an interactive session with the system. The system presents menu type queries, and the user selects one of several possible choices. These observations help to establish an abnormal condition caused by a disease process. The condition is established through the causal network Sec. 15.3 Nonproduction System Architectures 339 model as part of the cause and effect relationship relating symptoms and other signs to diseases. - Inference is accomplished by traversing the network, following the most plausible paths of causes and effects. Once a sufficiently strong path has been determined through the network, diagnostic conclusions are inferred using classification tables that interpret patterns of the causal network. These tables are similar to rule interpretations. The 