E is made up of two values the measure of belief in H given E written as MB H, E and a measure of disbelief in H given E written as MD H, E . The certainty factor CF H, E is defined as, CFIH, E MB H, E - MD H, E The interval MD, MB for a hypothesis H, given the evidence E, is similar to the confidence interval used in Dempster Shafer theory discussed in Section 17.6.1, except that in MYCIN s case, these numbers are provided by the human experts assigning strength to the associations. One important reason why using maximum a posteriori technique is preferable to direct abductive reasoning is that the conditional probability P(symptom disease) is local in nature, in the sense that given that the patient is known to be afflicted by a particular disease (like malaria), the symptoms (like high fever) do not depend upon other random variables that might be in the model. On the other hand, even if we have the probabilities for P(disease symptom), the values are likely to depend upon other factors for example whether the patient has had the disease earlier or not (like for chicken pox) or whether there is an epidemic of the disease or not. Even in everyday life, we use abduction quite effectively. You look at the colour of the dosa cooking on the fava to decide whether it is done. One sees a person staggering and concludes that he is drunk. But he could be hurt too. You see smoke coming out of a building and infer that there is a fire. One looks at wet grass and concludes that it rained last night. 17.5.3 Propagating Probabilistic Inferences One can have a knowledge base of conditional probabilities capturing associations between various propositions. One can even think of chaining together such inferences. For example, knowing that her dad s favourite team has won the game, a child might figure that her dad is likely to be in a good mood, and therefore might decide that that would be a good time when he is likely to order her favourite paneer butter masala from the neighbo