elation, depicted by the star graph shown below, Concept1 (relation) Concept2 The following two graphs are identical and read a cat is on a mat , Cat (On) Mat or Mat (On) Cat The following would be the title of the well-known children s book by Dr. Seuss. Cat: (In) Hat: A triadic relation may be represented as follows, Book: Asterix Obelix (Authors-2) 1 Person: Goscinny 2 Person: Uderzo which in the graphical is shown in Figure 14.40. Person: Goscinny 1 Book: Asterix Obelisk CAuthor-1) Ps Person: Uderzo FIGURE 14.40 A triadic relation in a conceptual graph. Every n-ary relation has a signature that is made of the types of the concepts it relates. The signatures of the three graphs described above are Cat, Mat , Cat, Hat , and Person, Person, Book . It is a convention that the arrows are directed away from all but the last concept in the signature. If these are more than one then they are numbered increasingly from left to right. The last concept in the signature has an arrow directed towards it from the relation. Figure 14.41 shows a larger example of a CG. ) ae ie f Hand: Right FIGURE 14.41 The conceptual graph for Arun ate two samosas that were in the plate with his right hand. Observe that all relations in the above CG are dyadic, and therefore no numbering is necessary. This could be represented as, Eat - (Agent) Person: Arun x (Instr) Hand: Right (Of) Person: ?x (Object) Samosa 2 (In) Plate: . We could have also written this as conjunction written as, Proposition: Eat y (Agent) (Person: Arun x Eat ?y (Instr) Hand: Right (Of) Person: ?x (Eat ?y (Object) Samosa 2 (In) Plate: Conceptual graphs allow conceptual graphs to be reified and hence are more powerful than first-order logic. This was illustrated in the example about Sue, Bob and the dog above. One can reify a CG by using a monadic relation to create a new concept. For example we can say, Situation: Eat (Agent) Person: Arun x (Instr) Hand: Right (of) (Person: ?x (Object) Samosa 2 (In) Plate: and one could us