 path a'-f g has the redundant edge a -f. The edge g-h is inadmissible because not all edges (in particular edge f-g) on the positive nonredundant positive path to g are admissible. Edges a-b, b-c, b-f b-d, c-d, c-h are inadmissible because they do not have a positive path leading up to them from a . Note that fd, d-h, have a nonredundant path via a -e-f and are admissible with respect to a . oil 1) fe : a ( c ) (f) a rr 7 4 A b) (e-K a Nea h 7 i (a) (a') 5 a per FIGURE 14.22 A sample inheritance network. 14.6.1 Extensions Given a possibly ambiguous inheritance graph, one might be interested in knowing a consistent set of properties that can be inherited by a node, or a set of conclusions that one can draw with respect to a node. Given a node A, we define a credulous extension of an inheritance graph T as a maximal consistent subgraph of that represents a maximal set of consistent conclusions with respect to node A. A subgraph is consistent if it does not support both AX and A--X A subgraph is maximal if one cannot add any edge to the graph while maintaining the consistency property. The three sub-graphs shown in Figure 14.23 are the three possible credulous extensions of the inheritance graph from Figure 14.22, with respect to node a in the graph. As one can see, they differ mostly on whether a can be concluded to be d and A or not. While the extension 1 allows both, extension 2 allows the conclusion that a d but not a h (it allows ah), and extension 3 allows neither d nor h. (hy) hy (h) wy, YW ay) 7 7 4 (a) fo) fe i, a, ) ) A A Extension 1 Extension 2 Extension 3 FIGURE 14.23 The three credulous extensions of the graph in Figure 14.22 for node a . Extensions 1 and 2 are preferred over extension 3 because 3 includes the edge c-d that is not admissible in the original network. Between extensions 1 and 2, neither is preferred over the other. One might ask whether one might prefer one extension over another. Looking at the above three extensions, we can see that all t