s(West,y,z) Hostile(z)
Missile(M1) Missile(y) Sells(West,y,z) Hostile(z) Missile(x) Owns(Nono,x) Sells(West,x,Nono) Sells(West,M1,z) Hostile(z)
Missile(M1) Missile(M1) Owns(Nono,M1) Hostile(Nono)
Owns(Nono,M1) Owns(Nono,M1) Hostile(Nono) Enemy(x,America) Hostile(x) Hostile(Nono)
Enemy(Nono,America) Enemy(Nono,America)
Figure9.11 Aresolutionproofthat Westisacriminal.Ateachstep,theliteralsthatunify
areinbold.
Figure 7.12, soweneed notrepeat ithere. Instead, wegive twoexample proofs. Thefirstis
thecrimeexamplefrom Section9.3. Thesentences in CN Fare American(x) Weapon(y) Sells(x,y,z) Hostile(z) Criminal(x) Missile(x) Owns(Nono,x) Sells(West,x,Nono) Enemy(x,America) Hostile(x) Missile(x) Weapon(x)
Owns(Nono,M ) Missile(M )
1 1
American(West) Enemy(Nono,America).
Wealso include the negated goal Criminal(West). Theresolution proof is shown in Fig-
ure9.11. Noticethestructure: single spine beginningwiththegoalclause,resolvingagainst
clauses from the knowledge base until the empty clause is generated. This is characteristic
of resolution on Horn clause knowledge bases. In fact, the clauses along the main spine
correspond exactly to the consecutive values of the goals variable in the backward-chaining
algorithm of Figure 9.6. This is because we always choose to resolve with a clause whose
positive literal unified with the leftmost literal of the current clause on the spine; this is
exactly what happens in backward chaining. Thus, backward chaining is just a special case
ofresolution withaparticularcontrol strategytodecidewhichresolution toperform next.
Oursecond examplemakesuseof Skolemization andinvolves clauses thatarenotdef-
inite clauses. This results in a somewhat more complex proof structure. In English, the
problem isasfollows:
Everyonewholovesallanimalsislovedbysomeone.
Anyonewhokillsananimalislovedbynoone.
Jacklovesallanimals.
Either Jackor Curiositykilledthecat,whoisnamed Tuna.
Did Curiositykillthecat?
Section9.5. Resolution 349
First, we express the original sente