the vertices adjacent to A and checking for consistency with the restricted set of labelings now attached to A. (iii) Continue to propagate until there are no adjacent labeled vertices or until there is no change made to the existing set of labelings. This algorithm will always find the unique, correct figure labeling if one exists. If a figure is ambiguous, however. the algorithm will terminate with at least one vertex still having more than one labeling attached to it. Actually, this algorithm, as described by Waltz, was applied to a larger class of figures in which cracks and shadows might occur. But the opecation of the algorithm is the same regardless of the size of the table of allowable vertex labelings that it u&d S. In fact, as suggested in the last section, the usefulness of the algorithm increases as the size of the domain increases and thus the ratio of physically possible to theoretically possible vertices decreases. Waltz s program, for example, used shadow information, which appears in the figure locally as shadow lines, as a way of exploiting a global constraint, namely that a single source of light produces consistent shadows. SUMMARY In this chapter, we outlined the major difficulties that confront programs designed to perform perceptual tasks. We also described the use of the constraint satisfaction procedure as one way of surmounting some of those difficulties. Sometimes the problems of speech and image understanding are important in the construction of standalone programs to solve one particular task. But they also play an important role in the larger field of robotics, which has as its goal the construction of intelligent robots capable of functioning with some degree of autonomy. For such robots, perceptual abilities are essential. We will return to these issues in Chapter 21. 284 Artificial Intelligence ee eee emmmnmintiinneenall EXERCISES a L e A TL HEL ee APTS ENR MR NT A RY ABI SSE NA AISLE FET LEONI A 1. n N > SIMD Nats Fe One of the reas