opreferred outcomes. When Mc Donald s offersahamburger
foradollar,theyareassertingthattheywouldpreferthedollarandhopingthatcustomerswill
prefer the hamburger. The mathematical treatment of preferred outcomes or utility was
UTILITY
firstformalized by Le on Walras(pronounced Valrasse ) (1834-1910) andwasimproved by
Frank Ramsey(1931) and laterby John von Neumann and Oskar Morgenstern in theirbook
The Theoryof Gamesand Economic Behavior(1944).
Decisiontheory,whichcombinesprobability theorywithutilitytheory,providesafor-
DECISIONTHEORY
malandcompleteframeworkfordecisions(economicorotherwise)madeunderuncertainty that is, in cases where probabilistic descriptions appropriately capture the decision maker s
environment. This issuitable for large economies whereeach agent need pay no attention
to the actions of other agents as individuals. For small economies, the situation is much
more like a game: the actions of one player can significantly affect the utility of another
(either positively or negatively). Von Neumann and Morgenstern s development of game
theory (see also Luceand Raiffa, 1957) included the surprising result that, forsomegames,
GAMETHEORY
10 Chapter 1. Introduction
arational agent should adoptpolicies thatare(orleast appeartobe)randomized. Unlikede-
cisiontheory, gametheorydoesnotofferanunambiguous prescription forselecting actions.
For the most part, economists did not address the third question listed above, namely,
how tomake rational decisions whenpayoffs from actions are not immediate but instead re-
sultfromseveralactionstakeninsequence. Thistopicwaspursuedinthefieldofoperations
OPERATIONS research, which emerged in World War II from efforts in Britain to optimize radar installa-
RESEARCH
tions, and later found civilian applications in complex management decisions. The work of
Richard Bellman (1957) formalized a class of sequential decision problems called Markov
decisionprocesses, whichwestudyin Chapters17and21.
Work in economics and operations researc