for
the same case as shown in Figure 8.4. Figure 8.5 shows some of the models, ranging from
the model with no tuples satisfying the relation to the model with all tuples satisfying the
relation. With two objects, there are four possible two-element tuples, so there are 24 16
different subsets oftuples that cansatisfy therelation. Thus, there are16possible modelsin
all alotfewerthantheinfinitelymanymodelsforthestandardfirst-ordersemantics. Onthe
otherhand,thedatabasesemantics requiresdefiniteknowledgeofwhattheworldcontains.
This example brings up an important point: there is no one correct semantics for
logic. The usefulness of any proposed semantics depends on how concise and intuitive it
makes the expression of the kinds of knowledge we want to write down, and on how easy
andnatural itistodevelop thecorresponding rules ofinference. Database semantics ismost
useful when we are certain about the identity of all the objects described in the knowledge
base and whenwehave allthe facts athand; inother cases, itisquite awkward. Forthe rest
ofthischapter,weassumethestandardsemanticswhilenotinginstancesinwhichthischoice
leadstocumbersomeexpressions.
8.3 USING FIRST-ORDER LOGIC
Nowthatwehavedefinedanexpressivelogicallanguage,itistimetolearnhowtouseit. The
bestwaytodothisisthroughexamples. Wehaveseensomesimplesentencesillustrating the
variousaspectsoflogicalsyntax;inthissection, weprovidemoresystematicrepresentations
of some simple domains. In knowledge representation, a domain is just some part of the
DOMAIN
worldaboutwhichwewishtoexpresssomeknowledge.
Webegin withabriefdescription ofthe TELL ASK interface forfirst-orderknowledge
bases. Then we look at the domains of family relationships, numbers, sets, and lists, and at
Section8.3. Using First-Order Logic 301
thewumpusworld. Thenextsectioncontainsamoresubstantialexample(electroniccircuits)
and Chapter12coverseverything intheuniverse.
8.3.1 Assertions andqueries infirst-order logic
Sentencesareaddedtoaknowledgebaseusing TELL