 to cook soups and other canned 330 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 products at eight plants located throughout the country. Some of the larger cookers hold up to 68,000 cans of food for short periods of cooking time. When difficult maintenance problems occur with the cookers, the fault must be found and corrected quickly or the batch of foods being prepared will spoil. Until recently, the company had been depending on a single expert to diagnose and cure the more difficult problems, flying him tothe site when necessary. Since this individual will retire in a few years taking his expertise with him, the company decided to develop an expert system to diagnose these difficult problems. After some months of development with assistance from Texas Instruments, the company developed an expert system which ran on a PC. The system has about 150 rules in its knowledge base with which to diagnose the more complex cooker problems. The system has also been used to provide training to new maintenance personnel. Cloning multiple copies for each of the eight locations cost the company only a few pennies per copy. Furthermore, the system cannot retire, and its performance can continue to be improved with the addition of more rules. It has already proven to be a real asset to the company. Similar cases now abound in many diverse organizations. 15.2 RULE-BASED SYSTEM ARCHITECTURES The most common form of architecture used in expert and other types of knowledgebased systems is the production system, also called the rule-based system. This type of system uses knowledge encoded in the form of production rules, that is, if then rules. We may remember from Chapter 4 that rules have an antecedent or condition part, the left-hand side, and a conclusion or action part, the righthand side. IF: Condition-1 and Condition-2 and Condition-3 THEN: Take Action-4 IF: The temperature is greater than 200 degrees, and The water level is low THEN: Open the safety valve. A&B&C&D E&F Each rule repre