 writers. ... Our research results indicate that low levels of latent inhibition and exceptional flexibility in thought predispose people to mental illness under some conditions, and to creative accomplishments under others. (Carson, 2003, Cromie, 2003). Unlike the normal thought processes that are focused, people with low levels of latent inhibition have their minds flooded with many different ideas. If the person is able to handle this meaningfully, she can be creative; otherwise there is a danger of being labelled as mad . Low latent inhibition, it seems, increases the available mental elements thoughts, memories, and the like, or what Carson calls bits and pieces in the cognitive workspace that supply the raw material for originality and novelty. Although too much material entering the cognitive working area might disorient psychotics, Carson wondered whether highly creative people could use those many bits and pieces in the cognitive workspace and combine them in novel, original ways. (Lambert, 2004). Perhaps they do not dismiss as easily as the rest of us irrelevant ideas that pop into their heads, but instead entertain them long enough for one of them to connect with another thought that is kicking around giving birth to a novel, creative idea. ... Getting swamped by new information that you have difficulty handling, may predispose you to a mental disorder, Carson says. But if you have high intelligence and a good working memory, you are more likely to be able to combine bits of new information in creative ways. The high intelligence part of Carson s statement is key (Begley, 2005). High intelligence, she adds, should help you to better process the increasing information that goes along with low latent inhibition. To be creative, you can be bright and crazy, but not stupid. Some minimal level of intelligence is, therefore, required for creativity. The reason is that in order to generate novel combinations, it helps to have a wealth of mental elements to work 