es a set of candidate diagnoses and a new conflict and generates the new set of candidates. After processing the input F, 10 and Fo 12, one more measurement is made. Extend the diagram in Figure 17.15 to incorporate the results of the new measurement, in each of the following cases independently. (a) C, 4 (b) C, 6 (c) C, 8 (d) Co 4 (e) Co 6 (f) C2 8 (g) C3 4 Replace the contradiction node L in Figure 17.21 with a node containing the datum S, and reassign the labels to all the nodes. 19. Given that you have buckets red and green which you choose with probabilities 0.3 and 0.7. Let the red buck have 90 black balls and 10 white balls, while the blue one has 10 black ones and 90 white ones. Suppose you choose a bucket randomly, as per the given probabilities, and randomly pick a ball from the bucket. What is the probability of picking up a black ball? Alternatively, if you have a black ball, which bucket did it most likely come from? 20. The birthday clash problem. How many people do you need in a room so that the probability of a birthday clash is greater than 0.5? 21. A variation on the three prisoners paradox from (Gardner, 1959a; 1959b) and (Pearl, 1988). Three prisoners? A, B and C are in a jail to be tried for a massive XYZ scam. The judgement is to be out the next morning. Only one of them will be declared guilty, and the other two will be released. The prison guard knows the identity of the convicted person. Prisoner A requests the guard to hand over a letter to one of the other two who is going to be released. The guard agrees and does so. Prisoner A then asks the guard as to whom he gave the letter to, and the guard informs him that it was to prisoner B. Prisoner A reasons as follows, Before spoke to the guard, the chances of me being convicted were 1 3. Now that know that B is going to be released, only C and are left. So the chances are now . What did do wrong? Is the prisoner A s reasoning correct? 22. The Monty Hall problem, a variation of the three prison