 resorting to probabilistic methods. All these methods are needed in the armoury of an intelligent agent. We cannot go so far as to claim that we have uncovered the nature of the mind, but we can say quite positively that we have developed greater insights into the processes that would make up, as Minsky (1988) postulated, the society that mind must be. It may also be observed that from a pragmatic viewpoint, the fact that machines and humans always do not have to do the same thing the same way may have its benefits for us. For example, Google is good at filtering out a few pages from billions in sub-seconds, while humans are good at forming abstractions over the contents of the top ten results suggested and distilling out what is useful. In that sense, a search engine amplifies our ability to solve problems, and to do that it may complement our own strong points. A chess grandmaster may use a chess playing program or database of past games to explore and analyse situations before a match. The fact that programs play chess using an approach different from humans does not matter. A mathematician may use a theorem prover to check if a conjecture she has made is a provable one; or a lawyer may use a legal advisory system to pore over a large database of past cases to bolster her argument. In that sense, approaches to reasoning that exploit the processing speed of a computer are engineering contributions, though they may not necessarily further the cognitive goal of understanding intelligence. At the same time an analogy from the world of flying machines has oft been quoted. The design of an airplane does not mimic a bird. Rather one extracts principles of aerodynamics from the study of flight, and uses those principles to build flying machines made of metal. In the same manner, perhaps a study of cognition will lead us to thinking machines, even though they may not think like us. In the end the way we humans judge intelligence is how the entity interacts with us, from 