based system include - (@) Formulating Fuzzy regions, (ii) Fuzzy Rules and (iii) Embedding a Defuzzification procedure. Fuzzy Jogic has also been widely applied to non-control applications as well. Take the case of deciding whether a book on Artificial Intelligence belongs to the domain of Computer Science, Psychology or Civil Engineering. In such situations a crisp numerical output obtained by this defuzzification process used earlier may carry no meaning. The composite maxima is generally used for such problems and the truth depends on whether or not the composite maxima has crossed a predetermined threshold. The defuzzification process however may be tuned to suit the satisfiability of the application at hand. 22.6 SUGENO STYLE OF FUZZY INFERENCE PROCESSING As mentioned earlier the fuzzy inference processing used in the application described is referred to as the Mamdani inference method. The Takagi-Sugeno-Kang, method of tuzzy inference. more commonly referred to as the Sugeno method of fuzzy inference processing is similar to Mamdani but for the way in which the output is computed. The process of fuzzifying the inputs and applying the fuzzy rules remain the same as in the Mamdani style, but contrary to this, the Sugeno output membership functions are either a constant or linear in nature. A typical rule in the Sugeno style is portrayed below. If temperature is HOT then flow-rate is (a T? + b T +c) Alternatively the style also supports rules of the type If temperature is HOT and fan motor speed is SLACK then flow-rate is 100. A more complex model may have a rule like - If temperature is HOT and fan motor speed is SLACK then flow-rate fis (a T + b S + ) T and S are the values reported by the temperature and speed sensors respectively. (Note that when the constants a and b are zero, the flow-rate equals the constant which makes this rule similar to the previous one.) This value of flow rate (flow-rate) may he weighted using the firing strength (memberships) of the