lution of different species to cater to each role. A niche can thus be viewed as a subspace in the environment that can support several types of life forms. A group, of individuals that possess similar biological features and are capable of breeding among themselves (and unable to do so with individuals outside their group), forms a Species. In the real world for every niche, the physical resources available remain finite. Thus they have to be shared among the individuals of the population that infest the niche. Likewise in a multi optima (multi-modal) search space, a niche forms one optimum point and the concept of fitness refers to the resources available therein. Thus all individuals within this niche have to share their fitness with others (niching). Fitness sharing is thus a form of niching strategy. In another niching strategytermed as Crowding, an offspring replace the most similar individual taken from a randomly drawn subpopulation of size C; called the Crowding Factor. In deterministic crowding the offspring (after crossover and mutation) replaces the nearest parent only if its fitness is higher. ~ Speciation is the development of one or more species from existing ones. One may imagine the formation of diverse yet stable populations that can occupy different regions of a search space. This would mean that part of the population is near (or has hit) one optimum while the other portions have hit similar ones elsewhere in.the search space. Speciation is commonly realized by imposing restrictions in mating. A distance is found between two individuals. {f this distance is less than a predetermined threshold value, the two are allowed to crossover (mate). Else other individuals are chosen that satisfy this criterion and finally if none are available a random selection ensues. Niching and Speciation augment the capability of the other operators in locating multiple optima (multi-modal search) as also in maintaining an increased diversity in the population. 472 Ar