er 24. Perception
Image Orientation Positive Negative
histograms components components
Figure 24.14 Local orientation histograms are a powerful feature for recognizing even
quitecomplexobjects. Ontheleft,animageofapedestrian. Onthecenterleft,localorien-
tation histogramsforpatches. We then applya classifier such as a supportvectormachine
tofindtheweightsforeachhistogramthatbestseparatethepositiveexamplesofpedestrians
fromnon-pedestrians. Weseethatthepositivelyweightedcomponentslookliketheoutline
ofa person. Thenegativecomponentsarelessclear;theyrepresentallthepatternsthatare
notpedestrians.Figurefrom Dalaland Triggs(2005)(cid:2)c IEEE.
we see either a lollipop shape the torso is wider than the legs, which are together in
the stance phase of the walk or a scissor shape where the legs are swinging in the
walk. Weexpect to see someevidence ofarms and legs, and the curve around theshoulders
and head also tends to visible and quite distinctive. This means that, with a careful feature
construction, wecanbuildausefulmoving-window pedestrian detector.
There isn t always a strong contrast between the pedestrian and the background, so it
isbettertouseorientations thanedgestorepresent theimagewindow. Pedestrians canmove
their arms and legs around, so we should use a histogram to suppress some spatial detail in
thefeature. Webreakupthewindowintocells,whichcouldoverlap,andbuildanorientation
histogram in each cell. Doing so will produce a feature that can tell whether the head-and-
shoulders curve is at the top of the window orat the bottom, but will not change if the head
movesslightly.
One further trick is required to make a good feature. Because orientation features are
not affected by illumination brightness, we cannot treat high-contrast edges specially. This
meansthatthedistinctive curvesontheboundary ofapedestrian aretreatedinthesameway
as fine texture detail in clothing or in the background, and so the signal may be submerged
innoise. Wecanrecovercontrastinformationbycoun