 article The Knowledge Level makesthecasethatrationalagentscanbedescribedandanalyzedatanabstractleveldefined
bytheknowledgetheypossessratherthantheprogramstheyrun. Thedeclarativeandproce-
dural approaches to AI are analyzed in depth by Boden (1977). The debate was revived by,
amongothers, Brooks(1991) and Nilsson(1991), andcontinues tothisday(Shaparau etal.,
2008). Meanwhile, thedeclarative approach has spread into otherareas ofcomputerscience
suchasnetworking (Looetal.,2006).
Logicitself haditsorigins inancient Greek philosophy and mathematics. Variouslog-
ical principles principles connecting the syntactic structure of sentences with their truth
and falsity, with their meaning, or with the validity of arguments in which they figure are
scattered in the works of Plato. The first known systematic study of logic was carried out
by Aristotle, whose work was assembled by his students after his death in 322 B.C. as a
treatise called the Organon. Aristotle s syllogisms were what we would now call inference
SYLLOGISM
rules. Although thesyllogisms included elements ofbothpropositional andfirst-orderlogic,
the system as a whole lacked the compositional properties required to handle sentences of
arbitrary complexity.
The closely related Megarian and Stoic schools (originating in the fifth century B.C.
andcontinuingforseveralcenturiesthereafter)beganthe systematicstudyofthebasiclogical
connectives. The use of truth tables fordefining connectives is due to Philo of Megara. The
276 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
Stoics took five basic inference rules as valid without proof, including the rule we now call
Modus Ponens. They derived a number of other rules from these five, using, among other
principles, the deduction theorem (page 249) and were much clearer about the notion of
proofthanwas Aristotle. Agoodaccount ofthehistory of Megarianand Stoiclogic isgiven
by Benson Mates(1953).
Theidea of reducing logical inference toapurely mechanical process applied to afor-
mallanguageisdueto W