ve it and place it on open. 6. Return to step 2. Next, we consider some desirable properties of heuristic search algorithms. They are summarized in the following definitions. - Admissibility condition. Algorithm A is admissible if it is guaranteed to return an optimal solution when one exists. Completeness condition. Algorithm A is complete if it always terminates with a solution when one exists. Dominance property. Let A1 and A2 be admissible algorithms with heurist estimation functions h*1 and h*.,. respectively. A1 is said to be more in/ormci than A2 whenever h*1(n) > h,(n) for all n. A1 is also said to dominate A. Optimality Property. Algorithm A is optimal over a class of algorithms it A dominates all members of the class. The admissibility condition for an algorithm has led to a corresponding definition for a heuristic function h*; h4 is said to be admissible if h* h for all pi. It can be shown that if A1 and A. are admissible, and A1 is more informed than A. then A1 never expands a node not expanded by A2. In general then, it is desirable t 184 Search and Control Strategies Chap. 9 find admissible heuristic functions that approximate h as closely as possible. This will insure that few if any nodes off the optimal path are expanded. Of course, if = h only nodes on the optimal path will be expanded. The cost of computing such a f'tnction should also be taken into account, however. It may not be cost effective if the computation cost is too high. it has been shown that the A* algorithm is both complete and admissible. Thus, At will always find an optimal path if one exists. The efficiency of an A* algorithm depends on how closely ht approximates h and the cost of the computingft. Iterative Deepening A By combining a heuristic evaluation function with a modified version of the iterative deepening search method presented earlier, we obtain iterative deepening At or IDAt. IDAt performs a depth search at each iteration and eliminates or trims all branches whose esti