 to N2 will be made if a the first input word found. If successful, state N2 is entered. The determiner is transition from N2 to N3 can then he made if a noun is found next. The final transition (from N3 to N4) will he made if the last word is a verb. If the threeword category sequence is not tound, the'parse fails Clearly, this type of network is very limited since it will only recognize simple sentences of the form DET N V. The utility of a network such as this could be increased if more than a single choice were permitted at some of the nodes. For example, if several arcs were constructed between nodes NI and N2 where each arc represented a different noun phrase, the number of permissible sentence types would be increased substantially. Individual arcs could be a noun, a pronoun, a determiner followed by a noun, a ve followed by a noun, or some other type of determiner followed by an adjecti noun phrase which we wish the parser to be capable of recognizing. These alternatives are depicted in Figure 12.7. Sec. 12.4 Basic Parsing Techniques determiner djetne pronoun '\ \, ,' noun NP (,N I_ proper noun N?) N3 Figure 12.7 A noun phra sce S ot a Iran o fin neiw ork flie D C To move from state, NI to N2 in this transition network, it is necessray to first find an adjective, a dtterminer.a pronoun, a proper noun, or none of these by "jumping" directly to N2. This network extends the possible types of sentences that can be recognized substantially over the simple network given above. Forexample. it will recognize noun phrases having forms such as Big white fluffy clouds Our bright children A large beautiful white flower Large green leaves Buildings Boston's best seafood restaurants Top-Down versus Botton-up Parsing Parsers may he designed to process a sentence using either a top-down or a bottomup approach. A top-down parser begins by hypothesizing a sentence (the symbol S) znd successively predicting lower level constituents until individual preterminal symbols are writ