emician :Is-A Emplcyee -) The Is-A relation defines a taxonomy of the concepts, in which two concepts are related by abstraction and specialization relations. The frame Cheetah is a specialization of Big-Cat, which in turn is a specialization of Animal, and so on. The Cheetah is also a specialization of Predator, and transitively (via Big-Cat) of Animal, and all its ancestors. This is because the frame Cheetah specifies more information about the set of concrete objects it represents than the frame Big-Cat. As a consequence, it stands for a smaller set of concrete objects (which have those extra properties) than does Big-Cat. In fact, the set represented by Cheetah is a subset of the set that Big-Cat stands for. The s-A hierarchy has found many applications in categorizing the kinds of things that exist, specially in the study of the natural world. The botanists and biologists of this world, of who Charles Darwin was a prominent example, have been occupied with studying life forms and categorizing them into species, genus and family. In our Web-enabled times, one can access such information through projects like The Tree of Life Web project . A small sample of the vast diversity that life manifests itself in, is depicted in Figure 14.3. The need to categorize information is of course not only confined to natural sciences, but has been the concern of philosophers and scientists in all disciplines. One must remember that the categories exist only in our heads. And so do the aggregations. They are reifications. Fundamentally, the world around us is just a vast swirl of trillions of presumably indivisible miniscule particles. Or as some somewhat extreme schools of philosophical thought believe, matter is not even fundamental. The ancient Indian schools of philosophy were concerned with existence thousands of years ago, as illustrated in the adjoining box. The Greek philosopher Aristotle espoused a method of defining general categories as the genus and the different subc