o be learnt separately. Many older students learn to solve complex mathematical e 1e foggiest idea of what is going on behind the symbol manipulation. But they do follow the rules t 1d do produce correct and useful answers. ver, while Hobbes did postulate that thought was like manipulation of mental particles the qu still perplexed him (and still to a considerable extent perplexes us). The celebrated Rene Descarte served that the symbol and the symbolized are two entirely different things. One can talk of alge vanipulating system, but it could symbolize anything in the real world. The notion that symbols (thou: cal universe exist in different media leads to the problem of mind-body dualism. If what goes on in th ntally different from what goes on in the physical world then how do the two interact? If one thinks Ss to drink some water, how does the hand move to accomplish that? How can matter interact with t ; a question that never was resolved, though several arguments were presented. One had to adc of mechanical reason : if something is mechanical it cannot reason, and if it can reason it c cal. If reasonilgzishthecareaningful manipulation of symbols then who is the manipulator? Descarte e ridicule that there had to be a homunculus or a little man inside the head to manipulate the symt ould have realized that even if this were to be an answer, then it leads to a problem of infinite regr of human thought (an idea due to Descartes) in which each fundamental concept would be represe! eal character. t is obvious that if we could find characters or signs suited for expressing all our thc nd as exactly as arithmetic expresses numbers or geometry expreseeartinesowe could do in al s they are subject to reasoning all that we can do in arithmetic and geometry. For all investigatio yn reasoning would be carried out by transposing these characters and by a species of calculus. (P ral Science, 1677. Revision of Rutherford s translation in (Jolley, 1995)) rve the relevance of th