 problem of finding the meaning of a set of uttered words. Again, the permutations of words are too numerous to enumerate. Parsers embody some generalized knowledge of the relations between the different constituents of a sentence. The meaning itself derives from the meaning of constituent elements of a sentence. The problem in natural language understanding is further compounded by the fact that the meaning of a sentence may depend upon context (like a neighbouring sentence). For example, Suresh was in a hurry to catch his flight. He ran towards the terminal. Reading a piece of literature may often require the reader to keep many segments in context, and in serial fiction like Sherlock Holmes, or the more recent Harry Potter, the reader may have to make sense of a piece of text based on what was written in an earlier story. Another scenario where artificial intelligence approaches are called upon is when the amount of computation required for establishing the connection between input and output is beyond acceptable limits. Consider the example of a chess game. Given a board position as input and a question about the outcome of the game, one needs only choose between three possibilities; a win or a draw or a loss for white. Alas, as we have seen in the game playing chapter, while this can be computed in principle, it is not feasible in practice. Another example of a hard problem we have seen is the travelling salesman problem. Faced with such problems, our approach so far has been the introduction of knowledge in the form of heuristic functions to cut down the search space. Humans on the other hand rarely do systematic search, and tend to reply more on knowledge and experience. Of course, they have the benefit of a lifetime of learning to fall back upon, and the experience of others in the form of advice and books. In the following chapters, we will explore how domain knowledge can be represented in a way appropriate for the reasoning tasks, and also how problem sol