was the purpose of the test proposed by Alan Turing (see Chapter 2). Al programs must be able to communicate with their human counterparts in a natural way, and natural language is one of the most important mediums for that purpose. Before proceeding further, a definition of understanding as used here should be given. We say a program understands a natural language if it behaves by taking a (predictably) correct or acceptable action in response to the input. For example, we say a child demonstrates understanding if it responds with the correct answer to a question. The action taken need not be an external response. It may simply be the creation of some internal data structures as would occur in learning some new facts. But in any case, the structures created should be meaningful and correctly interact with the world model representation held by the program. In this chapter we explore many of the important iss"ues related to natural language understanding and language generation. 12.2 OVERVIEW OF LINGUISTICS An understanding of linguistics is not a prerequisite to the study of natural language understanding, but a familiarity with the basics of grammar is certainly important. We must understand how words and sentences are combined to produce meaningful word strings before we can expect to design successful language understanding systems. In a natural language, the sentence is the basic language element. A sentence is made up of words which express a complete thought. To express a complete thought, a sentence must have a subject and a predicate. The subject is what the sentence is about, and the predicate says something about the subject. Sentences are classified by structure and usage. A simple sentence has one independent clause comprised of a subject and predicate. A compound sentence consists of two or more independent clauses connected by a conjunction or a semicolon. A complex sentence consists of an independent clause and one or more dependent clauses. Sentence