s the current contents of the blackboard and applies its knowledge either to create a new hypothesis and write it on the blackboard, or to modify an existing one Although the execution of the entire HEARSAY-II system consists of the asynchronous execution of a collection of KSs. the execution of an individual KS is a sequential process. Once a KS is activated, it executes without being interrupted until it is finished. The hypotheses on the blackboard are arranged along two dimensions: level (from small, low-level hypotheses about individual sounds to large, high-level hypotheses about the meaning of an entire sentence) and time (corresponding to periods of the utterance being analyzed). The goal of the system is to create a single hypothesis that represents a solution to a problem. For HEARSAY-II, such a solution would be an acceptable interpretation of an entire utterance. Figures 16.2 and 16.3 show a snapshot of a HEARSAY-II blackboard. Figure 16.2 shows the lowest three levels of the blackboard, and Figure 16.3 shows the top three. The levels are the following: (a) The waveform corresponding to the sentence Are any by Feigenbaum and Feldman? (b) The correct words shown just for reference (c) The sound segments {d) The syllable classes (e) The words as created by one word KS 342, Artificial Intelligence Fig. 16.2 A Snapshot of a HEARSAY-I! Blackboard (f) The words as created by a second word KS (g) Word sequences (h) Phrases Associated with each KS is a set of triggers that specify conditions under which the KS should be activated. These triggers are an example of the general idea of a demon, which is, conceptually, a procedure that watches for some condition to become true and then activates an associated process. When a trigger fires, it creates an activation record describing the KS that should be activated and the specific event that fired the trigger. This latter information can be used to focus the attention of the KS when it is actually activated. Of cours