sitions from one belief state
tothenextforaparticularactionasoccurring inthreestages, asshownin Figure4.15: Thepredictionstageisthesameasforsensorlessproblems: giventheactionainbelief
stateb,thepredicted beliefstateis b PREDICT(b,a).11 The observation prediction stage determines the set of percepts o that could be ob-
servedinthepredicted beliefstate:
POSSIBLE-PERCEPTS( b) o: o PERCEPT(s)ands b . The update stage determines, for each possible percept, the belief state that would
result from the percept. The new belief state b is just the set of states in b that could
o
haveproduced thepercept:
b
o UPDATE( b,o) s :o PERCEPT(s)ands b .
Noticethateachupdatedbeliefstateb canbenolargerthanthepredictedbeliefstate b;
o
observations can only help reduce uncertainty compared to the sensorless case. More-
over, for deterministic sensing, the belief states for the different possible percepts will
bedisjoint, formingapartition oftheoriginal predicted beliefstate.
11 Here,andthroughoutthebook,the hat in bmeansanestimatedorpredictedvalueforb.
Section4.4. Searchingwith Partial Observations 143 B,Dirty 2
Right
1 2
(a)
3 4 B,Clean 4 B,Dirty 2
Right 2
1 1 A,Dirty 1
(b)
3 3 3
4 B,Clean 4
Figure 4.15 Two example of transitions in local-sensing vacuum worlds. (a) In the de-
terministic world, Right is applied in the initial belief state, resulting in a new belief state
with two possible physicalstates; forthose states, the possible perceptsare B,Dirty and B,Clean , leading to two belief states, each of which is a singleton. (b) In the slippery
world, Right is applied in the initial belief state, giving a new belief state with four physi-
calstates; forthosestates, thepossibleperceptsare A,Dirty , B,Dirty , and B,Clean ,
leadingtothreebeliefstatesasshown.
Puttingthesethreestagestogether, weobtainthepossible beliefstatesresultingfromagiven
actionandthesubsequent possible percepts:
RESULTS(b,a) b
o
:b
o UPDATE(PREDICT(b,a),o)and
o POSSIBLE-PERCEPTS(PREDICT(b,a)) . (4.5)
Again,thenondetermi