d as follow. Starting with 1, the next city in the tour is 4, because 4 is in the first place in the representation. From 4, the next hop is to city 2, because 2 is in the fourth position. The complete tour can in this manner be constructed as 14-2-5-6-8-9-3-7-1. One problem with the above representation is that not every permutation of cities represents a valid tour. For example, no permutation can start with 1, because that would mean going from 1 to 1. Furthermore, any permutation that contains say (3, x, 5, x, 1, X, X, X, x), is not a tour because it contains a cycle 1-3-5-1. Also, the single point crossover will not work. The appeal of the representation lies in the fact that it represents explicitly where to go from any given city. Thus, we can say in the tour (4, 5, 7, 2, 6, 8, 1, 9, 3) that after city 3 one goes to city 7, because 7 is in the third location in the representation. Given two parents, in the adjacency representation, the two options in the two parent tours are available at the same location, and could thus be inherited from either parent. One could then construct a child tour by choosing the next location to go to, using some heuristic approach. In the Heuristic Crossover (HX), a child tour is constructed by choosing a random city as a starting point. The next city is chosen from the two options in the two parents, by choosing the one that is linked by a shorter edge. One has to keep a lookout for the formation of a cycle in the tour, and if that is happening at some stage, a random city is chosen that does not introduce a cycle. Observe that if one of the parents has a sequence of cities connected by short edges, they are likely to be carried forward to the offspring being constructed. One can simplify the above crossover by choosing the successor cities from the two parents alternately. This is known as the Alternating Edges Crossover (AEX). A variation of this is to select a sequence of edges from one parent before choosing some from the oth