.2). Photons from the scene must pass through the pinhole, so if it is small
enough then nearby photons in the scene will be nearby in the image plane, and the image
willbeinfocus.
Thegeometryofsceneandimageiseasiesttounderstand withthepinholecamera. We
useathree-dimensional coordinatesystemwiththeoriginatthepinhole,andconsiderapoint
(cid:2)
P in the scene, with coordinates (X,Y,Z). P gets projected to the point P in the image
planewithcoordinates (x,y,z). Iff isthedistancefromthepinholetotheimageplane,then
bysimilartriangles, wecanderivethefollowingequations: x X y Y f X f Y , x , y .
f Z f Z Z Z
PERSPECTIVE These equations define animage-formation process known as perspective projection. Note
PROJECTION
that the Z inthe denominator means that the farther awayan object is, the smallerits image
Section24.1. Image Formation 931
Image
plane Y P
X
Z
P Pinhole
f
Figure24.2 Eachlight-sensitiveelementintheimageplaneatthebackofapinholecam-
erareceiveslightfromathesmallrangeofdirectionsthatpassesthroughthepinhole. Ifthe
pinholeissmallenough,theresultisafocusedimageatthebackofthepinhole.Theprocess
ofprojectionmeansthatlarge,distantobjectslookthesameassmaller,nearbyobjects.Note
thattheimageisprojectedupsidedown.
will be. Also, note that the minus signs mean that the image is inverted, both left right and
up down, comparedwiththescene.
Under perspective projection, distant objects look small. This is what allows you to
coverthemoonwithyourhand(Figure24.1). Animportantresultofthiseffectisthatparallel
linesconverge toapointonthehorizon. (Thinkofrailwaytracks, Figure24.1.) Alineinthe
sceneinthedirection (U,V,W)andpassingthroughthepoint(X ,Y ,Z )canbedescribed
0 0 0
as the set of points (X U,Y V,Z W), with varying between and .
0 0 0
Differentchoices of(X ,Y ,Z )yielddifferent linesparallel tooneanother. Theprojection
0 0 0
ofapoint P fromthislineontotheimageplaneisgivenby
(cid:13) (cid:14)
X U Y V
0 0
f ,f .
Z W Z W
0 0
As or , this becomes p (f U W,f V W) if W (cid:7) 0. This me