ream. John wanted Mary to go to the store. Fig. 15.14 Some Verb Case Frames Languages have rules for mapping from underlying case structures to surface syntactic forms. For example, in English, the unmarked subject 3 is generally chosen hy the following rule: If A is present, it is the subject. Otherwise, if I is present, it is the subject. Else the subject is O. 3The unmarked subject is the one that is used by default; it signals no special focus or emphasis in the sentence. Natural Language Processing 307 acne CRSA ANSE ETERS These rules can be applied in reverse by a parser to determine the underlying case structure from the superficial syntax. Parsing using a case grammar is usually expectation-driven. Once the verb of the sentence has been located, it can be used to predict the noun phrases that will occur and to determine the relationship of those phrases to the rest of the sentence. ATNs provide a good structure for case grammar parsing. Unlike traditional parsing algorithms in which the output structure always mirrors the structure of the grammar rules that created it, ATNs allow output structures of arbitrary form. For an example of their use, see Simmons [1973], which describes a system that uses an ATN parser to translate English sentences into a semantic net representing the case structures of sentences. These semantic nets can then be used to answer questions about the sentences. The result of parsing in a case representation is usually not a complete semantic description of a sentence. For example, the constituents that fill the case slots may still be English words rather than true semantic descriptions stated in the target representation. To go the rest of the way toward building a meaning representation, we still require many of the steps that are described in Section 15.3.4. 15.3.3. Conceptual Parsing Conceptual parsing, like semantic grammars, is a strategy for finding both the structure and the meaning of a sentence in one step. Conceptual parsin