rmed. These steps are illustrated in Figure 13.1 and summarized helov: Step 1. Stimuli produced by objects are perceived by sensory devices. The more prominent attributes (such as size, shape, color, and texture) produce the strongest stimuli. The values of these attributes and their relations are used to characterize an object in the form of a pattern vector X, as a string generated by some grammar, as a classification tree, a description graph, or some other means of representation. The range of characteristic attribute values is known as the measurement space M. Step 2. A subset of attributes whose values provide cohesive object grouping or clustering, consistent with some goals associated with the object classifications, are selected. Attributes selected are those which produce high intraclass and Io interclass groupings. This subset represents a reduction in the attribute space dimensionality and hence simplifies the classification process. The range of the subset of attribute values is known as the feature space F. Step 3. Usingthe selected attribute values, object or class characterization models are learned by forming generalized phototype descriptions, classification rules, or decision functions. These models are stored for subsequent recognition. The range of the decision function values or classification rules is known as the decision space D. Step 4. Recognition of familiar objects is achieved through application of the rules learned in Step 3 by comparison and matching of object features with the stored models. Refinements and adjustments can be performed continually thereafter to improve the quality and speed of recogti Itioo There are two basic approaches to tne .-on problem. (I) the decisiontheoretic approach and (2) the syntactic approach. atee Clsi t ,ct Learning ..,Jton Figure 13.1 The pattern recniton process I 274 Pattern Recognition Chap. 13 Decision Theoretic Classification The decision theoretic approach is based on the use of decision functi