 is using structured representations. This has been the theme of this chapter beginning with schemas and frames, and this theme has been brilliantly illustrated by the work of Roger Schank and his group at Yale University that we now look at. Human discourse is surprisingly economical. Very young children need things to be spelt out in detail, but as they acquire more and more knowledge, one needs to say less and less. Communication between adults involves a considerable amount of reading between the lines. And this is possible because of the knowledge structures shared between the interlocutors. Consider the following two sentences. Arvalan walked into the store. He picked up a jar of pickles and went home. A linguistic analysis by itself would not yield much because the two sentences say little explicitly. That someone (or something) called Arvalan walked into the store . And then a sentence saying that he picked up a jar of pickles and went home. Semantics, or the meaning of words, helps us understand the sentences individually (see Chapter 13). It is only world knowledge or pragmatics that is instrumental in us being able to understand the whole story. Our knowledge of what is a store and what (typically) happens in a store helps us understand that Arvalan is (probably) buying a jar of pickles, and the store is a place that sells jars of pickles, amongst other things. Our knowledge of what pickles are gives us cues of what Arvalan might do with the pickles. If these sentences were accompanied by others like He was sick of the hostel food or He was planning to visit his friend in Mumbai , we might be able to make an educated guess of what his intentions were. 14 Observe that any such inferences we might make are only probable inferences, signifying what typically happens in a store or what are pickles used for. They define what one would normally expect the sentences to pertain to. It is possible however that the inferences do not correspond to what is really hap