ng condition rule. Adding a disjunctive term generalizes the resulting description by adding an alternative to the possible objects. For example, transforming red sphere to (red sphere) V (green pyramid) expands the class of red spheres to the class of red spheres or green pyramids. Note that the internal disjunction could also be used to generalize. An internal disjunction is one which appears inside the parentheses such as (red V green sphere). Climbing a Generalization Tree. When the classes of objects can be represented as a tree hierarchy as pictured in Figure 18.2, generalization is accomplished by simply climbing the tree to a node which is higher and, therefore, gives a more general description. For example, moving up the tree one level from elephant we obtain the more general class descriptioti of mammal. A greater generalization would be the class of all animals. Closing an Interval. When the domain of a descriptor is ordered (d1 < d2 < . . . < d) and a few values lie in a small interval, a more restricted form of generalization than changing constants to variables can be performed by generalizing the values to a closed interval. Thus, if two or more instances with values D = d1 and D = d, Anything sing things Ma Elephant Whale Figure 18.2 Generalization trce for the hierarchy of All Things. Learning by Induction Chap. 18 .where ii, < 4, have been observed, the generalization D = . 4,1 can be made that is, D can be any value in the interval d, to d,. Constructive Generalization Generating Chain Properties. If an order exists among a set of objects, they may be described by their ordinal position such as first, second, ....nth. For example, suppose the relations for a four story building are given as above(f2,f1) & above(f3j) & above(f4J1) then a constructive generalization is mos Labove(f,) & leas Labove(f1). The most above, least above relations are created. They did not occur in the original descriptors. Other forms of less frequently used generalization