ggregations and abstractions) that we define, all lie within our perceptual boundaries. We see events that happen in seconds or minutes, and we perceive as static that change that takes longer or shorter. Air molecules are banging against our faces, electrons are whirring around the atomic nuclei, and the wings of the honeybee are fluttering. On the television screen, the computer monitor or a cinema screen change happens much faster than we can perceive; hundreds or thousands of times a minute. We only see the (illusion of the) smoothly changing image in our timescale, seeing a person s lips moving or a football flying towards the goal. Beyond the other end of our perceptible time scale, the physical objects that we are and see around us are in fact undergoing change (beneath our very noses). The bud is blooming into a flower, the grass is growing, the glacier is moving, our hair is growing, the stars are moving across the sky, and night is beginning to change into dawn. But we do not see the change happening. Some change is far too slow for us to notice, for example the wood our table is made of is slowly oxidizing, or the rotation of the earth is slowing down, or our sun is expanding into becoming a red giant. Sometimes we simply refuse to acknowledge change, like global warming, even when others are frantically drawing our attention towards it. The conceptual world we create in our minds is essentially a manageable knowledge representation strategy in which the number of things we deal with and reason about is comparatively small. A key component that makes this possible is the notion of the schema. The schema holds together and imposes a structure on a collection of simpler constituents. The notion of schema has evolved during the quest for understanding human thinking, and is seen as something that is instrumental in assimilation and aggregation of similar experiences. The word schema derives from the Greek word oxnua which means form , shape or figure (see Ta