s, your friend s desire to eat Thai could be interpreted as a desire to eat either Red-Curry or Khao-Pad and if the restaurant supplies the former then it is a good match. Likewise, if a doctor is a specialist in ear problems, and nose problems, and throat problems, she is a perfect match if you have an ear problem. There can also be scenarios where the any-value semantics is not applicable and there is uncertainty associated with the internal nodes in the taxonomy. This can be termed as some-value semantics. In the recommender system situation, let us say that at some time in the past you have eaten some Thai food with your friend. Now you want it again, but don t remember quite what it was. If you go to a restaurant which serves only Red-Curry , one cannot say how well it matches your query . One could then adopt an optimistic approach, evaluating similarity as the maximum of similarity of Red-Curry with all the leaves that are descendants of Thai , which will turn out to be 1. This means that you are optimistic that it was indeed Red-Curry you wanted. Or one could take a pessimistic approach, choosing the lowest similarity of a leaf descendant with Red-Curry . This assumes that the Thai hyponym you actually wanted was in fact the one most dissimilar to Red-Curry . One could also choose the average in proportion to the probability of their occurrence. In the diagnostic situation, there could be uncertainty if say, you were not sure whether it is your ear, or your eyes that is causing your headache and the doctor happens to be an ENT specialist. Then she may or may not be able to diagnose your problem, so you cannot say you have a perfect match. 15.1.7 Global Similarity Let a case be defined by the set of attributes, Vatt A1, Aa, --- Ant Consider two cases C, and Co, Cy (V44, V425 Vin) Ca (V24, V2; Van) where vj, is the value of the Kk" attribute of C;. We have already seen how the local similarity between the two values for each attribute can be computed. The task