testruc-
DISCRETEEVENTS
ture. Shankar striphasabeginning, middle,andend. Ifinterruptedhalfway,theeventwould
besomethingdifferent itwouldnotbeatripfrom San Franciscoto Washington,butinstead
a trip from San Francisco to somewhere over Kansas. On the other hand, the category of
events denoted by Flyings has a different quality. If we take a small interval of Shankar s
flight, say, the third 20-minute segment (while he waitsanxiously forabag of peanuts), that
eventisstillamemberof Flyings. Infact,thisistrueforanysubinterval.
Categories of events with this property are called process categories or liquid event
PROCESS
categories. Anyprocess ethathappens overanintervalalsohappensoveranysubinterval:
LIQUIDEVENT
(e Processes) Happens(e,(t ,t )) (t t t t ) Happens(e,(t ,t )).
1 4 1 2 3 4 2 3
The distinction between liquid and nonliquid events is exactly analogous to the difference
between substances, or stuff, and individual objects, or things. In fact, some have called
TEMPORAL liquideventstemporalsubstances,whereassubstances likebutterare spatialsubstances.
SUBSTANCE
SPATIALSUBSTANCE
448 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
12.3.2 Timeintervals
Event calculus opens us up to the possibility of talking about time, and time intervals. We
willconsidertwokindsoftimeintervals: momentsandextendedintervals. Thedistinction is
thatonlymomentshavezeroduration:
Partition( Moments,Extended Intervals ,Intervals)
i Moments Duration(i) Seconds(0).
Next we invent a time scale and associate points on that scale with moments, giving us ab-
solute times. The time scale is arbitrary; we measure it in seconds and say that the moment
at midnight (GMT) on January 1, 1900, has time 0. The functions Begin and End pick out
theearliestandlatestmomentsinaninterval,andthefunction Time deliversthepointonthe
time scale for a moment. The function Duration gives the difference between the end time
andthestarttime.
Interval(i) Duration(i) (Time(End(i)) Time(Begin(i))).
Time(Begin(AD1900)) Seconds(0).
Time(B