at will help a lot, a myopic agent might
hastily take an action when it would have been better to request two or more variables first
and then take action. A better approach in this situation would be to construct a conditional
plan (as described in Section 11.3.2) that asks for variable values and takes different next
stepsdepending ontheanswer.
Onefinalconsideration istheeffectaseries ofquestions willhaveonahumanrespon-
dent. Peoplemayrespondbettertoaseriesofquestionsifthey makesense, sosomeexpert
systems are built to take this into account, asking questions in an order that maximizes the
totalutilityofthesystemandhumanratherthananorderthatmaximizesvalueofinformation.
16.7 DECISION-THEORETIC EXPERT SYSTEMS
Thefieldofdecisionanalysis,whichevolvedinthe1950sand1960s,studiestheapplication
DECISIONANALYSIS
of decision theory to actual decision problems. It is used to help make rational decisions in
important domains where the stakes are high, such as business, government, law, military
strategy,medicaldiagnosisandpublichealth,engineering design,andresourcemanagement.
The process involves a careful study of the possible actions and outcomes, as well as the
preferences placed on each outcome. It is traditional in decision analysis to talk about two
roles: the decision maker states preferences between outcomes, and the decision analyst
DECISIONMAKER
enumeratesthepossibleactionsandoutcomesandelicitspreferencesfromthedecisionmaker
DECISIONANALYST
to determine the best course of action. Until the early 1980s, the main purpose of decision
analysis was to help humans make decisions that actually reflect their own preferences. As
moreandmoredecision processes become automated, decision analysis isincreasingly used
toensurethattheautomated processes arebehaving asdesired.
Earlyexpertsystemresearchconcentrated onansweringquestions, ratherthanonmak-
ing decisions. Those systems that did recommend actions rather than providing opinions on
matters of fact generally did so using cond