kages show their relationship to other objects. Fuzzy logic is a generalization of predicate logic, developed to permit varying degrees of some property such as tall. In classical two-valued logic, TALL(john) is either true or false, but in fuzzy logic this statement may he partially true. Modal logic is an extension of classical logic. It was also developed to better represent commonsense casoning by permitting conditions such as likely or possible. Object oriented representations package an object together with its attributes and functions. therefore, hiding these facts. Operations are performed by sending messages between the objects. Another representation topic covered more fully later is uncertainty. Not all 16 Know*dge: General Concepts Chap. 2 knowledge is known with certainty. Kisowledge may be vague, contradictory, or incomplete. Yet we would still like to be al* to reason and make decisions. Humans do remarkably well with fuzzy, incomplete knowledge. We would also like our Al programs to demonstrate this versatility. 2.5 KNOWLEDGE ORGANIZATION The organization of knowledge in memory is key to efficient processing. Knowledgebased systems may require tens of thousands of facts and rules to perform their intended tasks. It is essential then that the appropiate facts and rules be easy to locate and retrieve. Otherwise, much time will be wasted in searching and testing large numbers of items in memory. Knowledge can be organized in memory for easy acctss by a method known as indexing. It amounts to grouping the knowledge in a way that key words can be used to access the group. The key words "point" to the knowledge groups. As a result, the search for some specific chunk of knowledge is limited to the group only, a fraction of the knowledge base rather than the whole memory. The choice of representation can simplify the organization and access operations. For example, frames linked together in a network represent a versatile organization structure. Each frame w