ook at the defence and assisting mechanisms. Whenever there is a catastrophe, an alarm is sounded and the focus of attention shifts; help is rushed to the point where the disaster occurred. If the problem is still not resolved, ancillary forces are deployed; more man-power and resources are mobilized (so akin to chemotaxis to attract lymphokines!) as the second level of attack. A learning mechanism (adaptive system) is initiated to circumvent such problems in the future. Of course, if such a disaster had occurred earlier, the operation would be carried out swiftly and more efficiently, a case so akin to a faster secondary response due to immune memory. Units or resources that are useless and ineffective are demobilized or sent back (Negative selection and aptosis). An immune mechanism seems already embedded in our society. The system seems to also resemble an army logistics to detecting, encountering, tackling and quelling intrusions in the borders of a country. As individuals, we get extended life times based on our ability to adapt. Those who are resourceful in solving the problems at hand are accepted and empowered to do more; they and their progeny seem to survive; the demand for such individuals increases; the others fade away (Darwin's Survival of the fittest). The way of tackling problems and adapting to the environment are learnt by a society of people over a large period of time. Some techniques and ideas are shared or gained from other societies - something akin to inoculations to be used for possible attacks in the future! Society itself seems to consist of individuals who act as Bor Tcells and behave similar to an immune system. So are we (as a society of agents) just part of a mega immune system of a gigantic being that pervades the Universe? EXERCISES 1. A smart house needs an efficient burglar detection and alarm system. Can you model these using AIS concepts? 2. Many events can be looked upon as a defence mechanism. For instance the simple fact that 