PAM. Processing of a natural language sentence begins by ELI (Riesbeck, 1975) parsing the input sentence and placing the resulting conceptualization in the Input gap. PAM then works in three modes. 1. Predictive Mode If the conceptualization in the Input gap matches one of the active expectations then it accepts it, executes the actions specified with the request, and goes into the Incorporation mode. PAM was expecting the conceptualization to appear, and when it does, it adds it to its explicit account of the story. 2. Bottom-up Mode If the conceptualization placed in the Input gap does not match any expectation, PAM strives to produce one that does. It does this by looking for a request in its repository whose pattern matches the input . If no request exists, PAM reports failure. If there is one then the action of the retrieved request points to another conceptualization that is placed in the nput gap. PAM then goes back to the Predictive mode. 3. Incorporation Mode PAM enters this mode, after it has found a conceptualization in its nput gap that it was expecting. The conceptualization could have been produced directly from the input sentence, or it could have been produced by a chain of request firings in the bottom-up mode. Starting from the input conceptualization to the one that matched an expectation, the entire chain is appended to the story being recreated, and more requests may be activated in the process. The working of PAM is shown schematically in Figure 14.16, when the input conceptualization describes an action. . action . . action . . action Ez Ez E Action FIGURE 14.16 PAM has a set of expectations that are patterns associated with active requests. Either the input conceptualization or something derived from it in the bottom-up mode is placed in the Input Gap for PAM to test in the Predictive mode. If it matches an expectation, PAM goes into the Incorporation mode. We look at a small example described in (Wilensky, 1981) of how PAM processes sentence