to recognize when a proverb is applicable. In a comparison (Pinckard, 1992) of the three popular games in the east, Chess, the game of warriors and kings, is described as a game of man vs. man ; the dice game of Backgammon (see the section on other games below), a game of man vs. fate contest; while Go the game of learning to recognize subtle patterns is billed as a man vs. self contest. We now briefly look at some of the other games that are not two person complete information board games, like those that have been addressed in this chapter so far. 8.4 Other Games The following games all differ from the games dealt with in the preceding sections in some way or the other. What is common between them is that for these games, it is not possible to construct a game tree to look ahead into the feature. We discuss three interesting games: Bridge, Scrabble and Backgammon. Of these, the first two are incomplete information games, in the sense that the players do not know the holdings of the opponent, and the third has an element of chance in the game introduced via the throw of dice. Another distinguishing feature of Bridge is that it is not a two person, but a four person game, in which there are two teams of two players each. Scrabble can be a multiplayer game too. 8.4.1 Bridge Contract bridge is a game played with a pack of fifty cards. The pack contains four suits: spades, diamonds, hearts and club. Each suit contains thirteen cards which form an ordered set 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, Jack, Queen, King, Ace . The pack is dealt out amongst four players traditionally called North, South, East and West. North and South are partners and so are East and West. The basic unit of play is a trick. A trick begins with a designated player playing a card, and the others follow in clockwise succession. They are required to follow suit or play a card in the suit led by the first player, unless they do not have one, in which case they can play any card. The highest card of the led s