ed on for so long, the standard approach dominates other methods in tournament
play. Some believe that this has caused game playing to become divorced from the main-
stream of AIresearch: thestandard approach nolongerprovides muchroom fornewinsight
intogeneralquestions ofdecision making. Inthissection, welookatthealternatives.
First, let us consider heuristic minimax. It selects an optimal move in a given search
tree provided that the leaf node evaluations are exactly correct. In reality, evaluations are
usually crude estimates of the value of a position and can be considered to have large errors
associated with them. Figure 5.14 shows a two-ply game tree for which minimax suggests
taking the right-hand branch because 100 99. That is the correct move if the evaluations
are all correct. But of course the evaluation function is only approximate. Suppose that
the evaluation of each node has an error that is independent of other nodes and is randomly
distributed with mean zero and standard deviation of . Then when 5, the left-hand
branch is actually better 71 of the time, and 58 of the time when 2. The intuition
behind this is that the right-hand branch has four nodes that are close to 99; if an error in
the evaluation of any one of the four makes the right-hand branch slip below 99, then the
left-hand branchisbetter.
Inreality,circumstances areactuallyworsethanthisbecausetheerrorintheevaluation
functionisnotindependent. Ifwegetonenodewrong,thechancesarehighthatnearbynodes
in the tree will also be wrong. The fact that the node labeled 99 has siblings labeled 1000
suggests that in fact it might have a higher true value. We can use an evaluation function
thatreturns aprobability distribution overpossible values, butitisdifficulttocombinethese
distributions properly, because wewon thaveagoodmodeloftheverystrongdependencies
thatexistbetweenthevaluesofsiblingnodes
Next,weconsiderthesearchalgorithmthatgeneratesthetree. Theaimofanalgorithm
designeristospecifyacomputationthatru