ty ;what
shoulditdoinresponseto Clean ? Moving Left fails(forever)ifithappenstostartinsquare
A,andmoving Right fails(forever)ifithappenstostartinsquare B. Infiniteloopsareoften
unavoidable forsimplereflexagentsoperating inpartially observable environments.
Escape from infinite loops is possible if the agent can randomize its actions. For ex-
RANDOMIZATION
ample,ifthevacuumagentperceives Clean ,itmightflipacointochoosebetween Left and
Right. Itiseasytoshowthattheagentwillreachtheothersquareinanaverageoftwosteps.
Then, if that square is dirty, the agent will clean it and the task will be complete. Hence, a
randomized simplereflexagentmightoutperform adeterministic simplereflexagent.
Wementionedin Section2.3thatrandomizedbehavioroftherightkindcanberational
insomemultiagentenvironments. Insingle-agentenvironments,randomizationisusuallynot
rational. It is a useful trick that helps a simple reflex agent in some situations, but in most
caseswecandomuchbetterwithmoresophisticated deterministic agents.
2.4.3 Model-based reflex agents
The most effective way to handle partial observability is for the agent to keep track of the
part of the world it can t see now. That is, the agent should maintain some sort of internal
statethatdepends onthepercepthistoryandtherebyreflectsatleastsomeoftheunobserved
INTERNALSTATE
aspects ofthecurrentstate. Forthebraking problem, theinternal stateisnottooextensive just the previous frame from the camera, allowing the agent to detect when twored lights at
theedgeofthevehicle goonoroffsimultaneously. Forother driving taskssuchaschanging
lanes,theagentneedstokeeptrackofwheretheothercarsareifitcan tseethemallatonce.
Andforanydrivingtobepossibleatall,theagentneedstokeeptrackofwhereitskeysare.
Updating this internal state information as time goes by requires two kinds of knowl-
edge to be encoded in the agent program. First, we need some information about how the
worldevolvesindependently oftheagent forexample,thatanovertakingcargenerallywill
be closer