valid) by the addition of new information that violates assumptions that were made during the original reasoning process. It turns out, as we show below, that making this one change has a dramatic impact on the structure of the logical system itself. In particular, most of our ideas of what it means to find a proof will have to be reevaluated. 2. How can the knowledge base be updated properly when a new fact is added to the system (or when an old one is removed)? In particular, in nonmonotonic systems, since the addition of a fact can cause Recall that in Section 2.4, we also made a monotonic/nonmonotonic distinction. There the issue was classes of production systems. Although we are applying the distinction to different entities here, it is essentially the same distinction in both cases, since it distinguishes between systems that never shrink as a result of an action (monotonic ones) and ones that can (nonmonotonic ones). 150 Artificial Intelligence previously discovered proofs to be become invalid, how can those proofs, and ail the conclusions that depend on them be found? The usual solution to this problem is to keep track of proofs, which are often called justifications. This makes it possible to find all the justifications that depended on the absence of the new fact, and those proofs can be marked as invalid. Interestingly, such a recording mechanism also makes it possible to support conventional, monotonic reasoning in the case where axioms must occasionally be retracted to reflect changes in the world that is being modeled. For example, it may be the case that Abbott is in town this week and so is available to testify, but if we wait until next week, he may be out of town. As a result, when we discuss techniques for maintaining valid sets of justifications, we talk both about nonmonotonic reasoning and about monotonic reasoning in a changing world. 3. How can knowledge be used to help resolve conflicts when there are several in consistent nonmonotonic infer