on a partially ordered plan structure, in which actions are inserted because they address the most significant differences between the desired state and the effects in the current partial plan. In particular we may insert actions based on criteria other than open condition satisfaction and threat removal, and work with a more general notion of flaws which may vary from domain to domain. We can think of the flaws (in the more general sense) as the differences in GPS. Furthermore, we order the flaws in some order of importance or difficulty and tackle them in that order. Consider the task of planning a trip from IIT Madras (IITM) in Chennai to the Technical University in Munich (TUM). The problem is to overcome the difference (distance) in our current state (at IITM) and the desired state (at TUM). An FSSP may start by planning with applicable moves from IITM, and a BSSP or GSP may start looking at the relevant moves from the goal (at TUM). They would try and construct the plans in linear fashion at the level of detail of actions. A GPS like solver may first address the biggest difference, in terms of distance, and observe that we can reduce the distance from Chennai to Frankfurt (the most significant difference) because we have the means to do so. That is, there is a flight from Chennai to Frankfurt. As one can notice, this information comes from the domain. We often think of such an operator first because we visualize the differences as distances and operators as means of transport. We could be working with an operator difference table that looks as follows. Table 7.1 A possible operator difference table for travelling, lists the modes of transport that can be used to cover different distance ranges. Modes of transport Distances Aeroplane Train Car Taxi Bus Walk More than 5000 km yes 100 km to 5000 km yes yes yes ikm to 100km yes yes yes yes Less than 2 km yes yes yes Observe that it is still not straightforward to use this table, because looking at the original pro