he graph and Y is a child of Z. Here X could be the result of a match which causally influences the mood of the father which in turn decides whether he would agree to order his daughter s favourite food. This is depicted in Figure 17.28b with the three variables match result, mood and agree to order food. Again, we can see that once we know that mood good, the probability of ordering the food becomes independent of the match result. Another example would be if X company performance, Z demand for shares and Y stock price. Or X monsoon status, Z wheat crop production and Y price of wheat. In this case too, knowing the value of variable Z blocks the path between X and Y. Case 3 When both X and Y causally influence node Z. Consider a game in which a player throws two dice and a bell rings whenever some desired result is achieved (for example, the two numbers that show up are the same) 6. Now in general, the two dice may show up with numbers independently. Consequently, in general, we should consider the path between them via bell as blocked. However, if we knew the value of the variable bel then the two throws are not independent anymore. If bell ringing then we know the two numbers must be the same. On the other hand, if bell silent then we know that they cannot be equal (and therefore are not independent). In case 3 in Figure 17.28c, when both the arrows are directed toward node Z, the situation is reversed. In the general nodes, X and Y are independent. But if we know the value of Z, they become dependent. Thus, knowing the value of Z unblocks an initially blocked path. Not only the value of Z, but that of its causal descendants had the same effect. Assume for example in our dice game if the bell rings then a waiter appears with a cake as a prize. Knowing that the waiter has appeared with the cake has the same effect of unblocking the path between X and Y. In the network in Figure 17.27, this would mean that knowing the value of X7 renders X3 and X, dependent. X Z Y 