at Polya s rules have not been operationalized. Nevertheless, Polya was several steps ahead of Al. A comment he made in the preface to the first printing (1944) of the book is interesting in this respect: The following pages are written somewhat concisely, but as simply as possible, and are based on a long and serious study of methods of solution. This sort of study, called heuristic by some writers, is not in fashion nowadays but has a long past and,-perhaps, some future. There are two major ways in which domain-specific, heuristic knowledge can be incorporated into a rulebased search procedure: In the rules themselves. For example, the rules for a chess-playing system might describe not simply the set of legal moves but rather a set of sensible moves, as determined by the rule writer. * As aheuristic function that evaluates individual problem states and determines how desirable they are. A heuristic function is a function that maps from problem state descriptions to measures of desirability, usually represented as numbers. Which aspects of the problem state are considered, how those aspects are evaluated, and the weights given to individual aspects are chosen in such a way that the value of the heuristic function at a given node in the search process gives as good an estimate as possible of whether that node is on the desired path to a solution. Well-designed heuristic functions can play an important part in efficiently guiding a search process toward a solution. Sometimes very simple heuristic functions can provide a fairly good estimate of whether a path is any good or not. In other situations, more complex heuristic functions should be employed. Fig. 2.8 shows some simple heuristic functions for a few problems. Notice that sometimes a high value of the heuristic function indicates a relatively good position (as shown for chess and tic-tactoe), while at other times a low value indicates an advantageous situation (as shown for the traveling salesman). It does not