
Lefthandandrighthand. Onepersonplayseach Hand. Thetwo Handsstandnextto
each other, each wearing an oven mitt on one hand, Hands execute only simple commands
from the Brain for example, Left Hand, move two inches forward. They cannot execute
commandsotherthanmotions;forexample,theycannotbecommandedto Pickupthebox. The Hands must be blindfolded. The only sensory capability they have is the ability to tell
when their path is blocked by an immovable obstacle such as a table or the other Hand. In
suchcases, theycanbeeptoinformthe Brainofthedifficulty.
26
PHILOSOPHICAL
FOUNDATIONS
In which we consider what it means to think and whether artifacts could and
shouldeverdoso.
Philosophers have been around far longer than computers and have been trying to resolve
some questions that relate to AI: How do minds work? Is it possible for machines to act
intelligently in the way that people do, and if they did, would they have real, conscious
minds? Whataretheethicalimplications ofintelligent machines?
First,someterminology: theassertionthatmachinescouldactasiftheywereintelligent
iscalled theweak AIhypothesis byphilosophers, andtheassertion thatmachines thatdoso
WEAKAI
areactuallythinking (notjustsimulating thinking) iscalledthestrong AIhypothesis.
STRONGAI
Most AIresearchers take the weak AIhypothesis forgranted, and don t careabout the
strong AI hypothesis as long as their program works, they don t care whether you call it a
simulation of intelligence or real intelligence. All AI researchers should be concerned with
theethicalimplications oftheirwork.
26.1 WEAK AI: CAN MACHINES ACT INTELLIGENTLY?
The proposal for the 1956 summer workshop that defined the field of Artificial Intelligence
(Mc Carthyetal.,1955)madetheassertionthat Everyaspectoflearningoranyotherfeature
ofintelligencecanbesopreciselydescribedthatamachinecanbemadetosimulateit. Thus,
AI wasfounded on theassumption that weak AI ispossible. Others have asserted that weak
AI is impossible: Artificial intelligence pursued 