ere not explicitly mentioned. Scripts can also be useful by indicating how events that were mentioned relate to each other. For example, what is the connection between someone s ordering steak and someone s eating steak? But before a particular script can be applied, it must be activated {i.e., it must be selected as appropriate to the current situation). There are two ways in which it may be useful to activate a script, depending on how important the script is likely to be: e For fleeting scripts (ones that are mentioned briefly and may be referred to again but are not central to the situation), it may be sufficient merely to store a pointer to the script so that it can be accessed later if necessary. This would be an appropriate strategy to take with respect to the restaurant script when confronted with a story such as Susan passed her favorite restaurant on her way to the museum. She really enjoyed the new Picasso exhibit. For nonfleeting scripts it is appropriate to activate the script fully and to attempt to fill in its slots with particular objects and people involved in the current situation. The headers of a script (its preconditions, its preferred locations, its props, its roles, arid its events) can all serve as indicators that the script should be activated. In order to cut down on the number of times a spurious script is activated, it has proved useful to require that a situation contain at least two of a script s headers before the script will be activated. Once a script has been activated, there are, as we have already suggested, a variety of ways in which it can be useful in interpreting a particular situation. The most important of these is the ability to predict events that have not explicitly been observed. Suppose, for example, that you are told the following story: 214 Artificial Intelligence _ Se ETRE RENNER IOLA TIN NETTLES John went out to a restaurant last night. He ordered steak. When he paid for it, he noticed that he was running out of mon