 is added to the database, its negation is automatically deleted if present.) . In Section 13.4, we showed an example of a situation in which a search path could be terminated because it led back to one of its earlier goals. Describe a mechanism by which a program could detect this situation. Consider the problem of swapping the contents of two registers, A and B. Suppose that there is available the single operator ASSIGN(, v, /v, ov), which assigas the value y, which is stored in location /y, to location x, which previously contained the value ov: Planning 271 Aenea NAC REETEIRAS I OAS ASSIGN(x , ly, ov) P: CONTAINS(iv, v) A CONTAINS(, ov) D: CONTAINS(x, ov) A: CONTAINS(,, v) Assume that there is at least one additional register, C, available. (a) What would STRIPS do with this problem? (b) What would TWEAK do with this problem? (c) How might you design a program to solve this problem? CHAPTER 14 UNDERSTANDING AU truths are easy to understand once they are discovered; the point ts to discover them. Galileo Galileo (1564-1642), Italian physicist, mathematician, astronomer and philosopher 14.1 WHAT IS UNDERSTANDING? To understand something is to transform it from one representation into another, where this second representation has been chosen to correspond to a set of available actions that could be performed and where the mapping has been designed so that for each event, an appropriate action will be performed. There is very little absolute in the notion of understanding. If you say to an airline database system I need to go to New York as soon as possible, the system will have understood if it finds the first available plane to New York. If you say the same thing to your best friend, who knows that your family lives in New York, she will have understood if she realizes that there may be a problem in your family and you may need some emotional support. As we talk about understanding, it is important to keep in mind that the success or failure of an understanding pr