B, then A will sometimes make a move
that greatly complicates thesituation, in thehopes ofgaining an advantage because he
hasmoretimetoworkouttheproperstrategy.
478 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
c. Ashopping agentinanenvironment inwhichtherearecostsofgatheringinformation.
d. Reasoning about public key cryptography, which rests on the intractability of certain
computational problems.
12.20 Translate the following description logic expression (from page 457) into first-order
logic,andcommentontheresult:
And(Man,At Least(3,Son),At Most(2,Daughter),
All(Son,And(Unemployed,Married,All(Spouse,Doctor))),
All(Daughter,And(Professor,Fills(Department,Physics,Math)))).
12.21 Recall that inheritance information in semantic networks can be captured logically
by suitable implication sentences. This exercise investigates the efficiency of using such
sentences forinheritance.
a. Consider the information in a used-car catalog such as Kelly s Blue Book for exam-
ple, that 1973 Dodge vans are (or perhaps were once) worth 575. Suppose all this
information (for 11,000 models) is encoded as logical sentences, as suggested in the
chapter. Write down three such sentences, including that for 1973 Dodge vans. How
would you use the sentences to find the value of a particular car, given a backward-
chainingtheorem proversuchas Prolog?
b. Comparethetimeefficiencyofthebackward-chaining methodforsolvingthisproblem
withtheinheritance methodusedinsemanticnets.
c. Explain how forward chaining allows a logic-based system to solve the same problem
efficiently,assuming thatthe KBcontainsonlythe11,000sentences aboutprices.
d. Describe a situation in which neither forward nor backward chaining on the sentences
willallowthepricequeryforanindividual cartobehandled efficiently.
e. Can you suggest a solution enabling this type of query to be solved efficiently in all
cases in logic systems? (Hint: Remember that two cars of the same year and model
havethesameprice.)
12.22 One might suppose that the syn