ght in the causing of the observation. Thus,
someone who iseight feet tall and weighs 190 pounds is very unlikely tobe called tall and
heavy, eventhough eightfeet countsas tall and 190pounds counts as heavy. Fuzzy predicates can also be given a probabilistic interpretation in terms of random
sets that is, random variables whosepossible values are sets of objects. Forexample, Tall
RANDOMSET
is a random set whose possible values are sets of people. The probability P(Tall S ),
1
where S is some particular set of people, is the probability that exactly that set would be
1
identified as tall by an observer. Then the probability that Nate is tall is the sum of the
probabilities ofallthesetsofwhich Nateisamember.
Both the hybrid Bayesian network approach and the random sets approach appear to
capture aspects offuzziness without introducing degrees oftruth. Nonetheless, there remain
manyopenissuesconcerning theproperrepresentation oflinguisticobservations andcontin-
uousquantities issues thathavebeenneglected bymostoutside thefuzzycommunity.
14.8 SUMMARY
Thischapterhasdescribed Bayesiannetworks,awell-developedrepresentationforuncertain
knowledge. Bayesian networks play a role roughly analogous to that of propositional logic
fordefiniteknowledge. A Bayesian network is a directed acyclic graph whose nodes correspond to random
variables;eachnodehasaconditional distribution forthe node,givenitsparents. Bayesiannetworksprovideaconcisewaytorepresent conditionalindependencerela-
tionships inthedomain. ABayesian network specifies afull joint distribution; each joint entry isdefined asthe
product of the corresponding entries in the local conditional distributions. A Bayesian
networkisoftenexponentially smallerthananexplicitlyenumerated jointdistribution. Many conditional distributions can be represented compactly by canonical families of
552 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
distributions. Hybrid Bayesian networks,whichincludebothdiscreteandcontinuous
variables, useavarietyofcanon