developedeffectiveheuristics forplanning withsituation calculus.
10.4.3 Planning asconstraint satisfaction
Wehaveseenthatconstraint satisfaction hasalotincommonwith Booleansatisfiability, and
wehaveseenthat CS Ptechniquesareeffectiveforschedulingproblems,soitisnotsurprising
thatitispossibletoencodeaboundedplanningproblem(i.e.,theproblemoffindingaplanof
lengthk)asaconstraint satisfaction problem (CSP).Theencoding issimilartotheencoding
to a SAT problem (Section 10.4.1), with one important simplification: at each time step we
need only a single variable, Actiont, whose domain is the set of possible actions. We no
longerneed one variable forevery action, and wedon t need theaction exclusion axioms. It
isalsopossibletoencodeaplanninggraphintoa CSP.Thisistheapproachtakenby GP-CSP
(Doand Kambhampati, 2003).
10.4.4 Planning asrefinement ofpartially ordered plans
Alltheapproaches wehaveseensofarconstruct totallyorderedplansconsisting ofastrictly
linear sequences of actions. This representation ignores the fact that many subproblems are
independent. A solution to an air cargo problem consists of a totally ordered sequence of
actions,yetif30packagesarebeingloadedontooneplaneinoneairportand50packagesare
beingloadedontoanotheratanotherairport,itseemspointlesstocomeupwithastrictlinear
ordering of80loadactions; thetwosubsetsofactions shouldbethought ofindependently.
An alternative is to represent plans as partially ordered structures: a plan is a set of
actions and a set of constraints of the form Before(a ,a ) saying that one action occurs
i j
beforeanother. Inthebottomof Figure10.13,weseeapartiallyorderedplanthatisasolution
to the spare tire problem. Actions are boxes and ordering constraints are arrows. Note that
Remove(Spare,Trunk)and Remove(Flat,Axle)canbedoneineitherorderaslongasthey
arebothcompleted beforethe Put On(Spare,Axle)action.
Partially ordered plans are created by a search through the space of plans rather than
through the state space. We start with the empty plan