e probabilistic roadmap, a skeletonization
ROADMAP
approach that offers morepossible routes, andthus deals betterwithwide-open spaces. Fig-
ure25.18(b)showsanexampleofaprobabilisticroadmap. Thegraphiscreatedbyrandomly
generating a large number of configurations, and discarding those that do not fall into free
space. Two nodes are joined by an arc if it is easy to reach one node from the other for
example, by a straight line in free space. The result of all this is a randomized graph in the
robot s free space. If we add the robot s start and goal configurations to this graph, path
planning amounts to adiscrete graph search. Theoretically, this approach is incomplete, be-
cause a bad choice of random points may leave us without any paths from start to goal. It
is possible to bound the probability of failure in terms of the number of points generated
and certain geometric properties of the configuration space. It is also possible to direct the
generation of sample points towards the areas where a partial search suggests that a good
path may be found, working bidirectionally from both the start and the goal positions. With
theseimprovements,probabilisticroadmapplanningtendstoscalebettertohigh-dimensional
configuration spacesthanmostalternative path-planning techniques.
25.5 PLANNING UNCERTAIN MOVEMENTS
Noneoftherobotmotion-planning algorithmsdiscussedthusfaraddressesakeycharacteris-
ticofroboticsproblems: uncertainty. Inrobotics,uncertaintyarisesfrompartialobservability
oftheenvironment andfromthestochastic (orunmodeled) effectsoftherobot s actions. Er-
rorscanalsoarisefrom theuseofapproximation algorithms suchasparticle filtering, which
doesnotprovide therobotwithanexactbelief stateevenifthestochastic nature oftheenvi-
ronmentismodeledperfectly.
Most of today s robots use deterministic algorithms for decision making, such as the
path-planning algorithms of the previous section. To do so, it is common practice to extract
the most likely state from the probability distri