obility to effective use. In this section, we investigate the nature of mobility in terms of how robots navigate through the world and manipulate objects. 21.3.1 Navigation Navigation means moving around the world: planning routes, reaching desired desti-nations without bumping into things, and so forth. Like vision and speech recognition, this is something humans do fairly easily. Many classic AE planning problems involve navigation. The STRIPS system, for example, gave high-level instructions to a robot moving through a set of rooms, carrying objects from one to another. Plans to solve goals like move box A into room X contained operators like MOVE(Y, X), meaning move from room Y to room X. The planner did not concern itself with how this movement was to be realized in the world; from its perspective, the manner of movement was something akin to teleportation. A real robot, however, must consider the low-level details involved in getting from here to there. Perception and Action 439 Navigational problems are surprisingly complex. For example, suppose that there are obstacles in the robot s path, as in Fig. 21.6. The problem of path planning is to plot a continuous - set of points connecting the initial position of the robot to its start obstacle desired position. goal If the robot is so small as to be considered a point, the problem . ; can be solved straightforwardly by constructing a visibility graph. Fig. 21.6 A Path planning problem Let S be the set consisting of the initial and final positions as <2 well as the vertices of all obstacles. To form the visibility graph, we connect every pair of points in S that are visible from one ee another, as shown in Fig. 21.7. We can then search the graph NN. obstacle a goal (perhaps using the A* algorithm) to find an optimal path for the robot. Fig. 21.7 Constructing a Visibility Graph Most robots have bulky extent, however, and we must take this into account when we plan paths. Consider the problem poy shown in Fig. 21.8