nd-cannibals
problem in Exercise 3.9.) Aggregation is essential for reducing complexity. Consider what
happens when a proposed schedule has 10 concurrent Inspect actions but only 9 inspectors
areavailable. Withinspectorsrepresentedasquantities, afailureisdetectedimmediatelyand
thealgorithm backtracks totryanotherschedule. Withinspectors represented asindividuals,
thealgorithm backtracks totryall 10!waysofassigning inspectors toactions.
11.1.2 Solvingscheduling problems
Webeginbyconsideringjustthetemporalschedulingproblem,ignoringresourceconstraints.
Tominimizemakespan(planduration),wemustfindtheearlieststarttimesforalltheactions
consistent withtheorderingconstraints suppliedwiththe problem. Itishelpfultoviewthese
orderingconstraintsasadirectedgraphrelatingtheactions,asshownin Figure11.2. Wecan
CRITICALPATH apply the critical path method (CPM) to this graph to determine the possible start and end
METHOD
times of each action. A path through a graph representing a partial-order plan is a linearly
ordered sequence of actions beginning with Start and ending with Finish. (For example,
therearetwopathsinthepartial-order planin Figure11.2.)
The critical path is that path whose total duration is longest; the path is critical CRITICALPATH
because itdetermines theduration oftheentireplan shortening otherpathsdoesn t shorten
the plan as a whole, but delaying the start of any action on the critical path slows down the
wholeplan. Actionsthatareoffthecriticalpathhaveawindowoftimeinwhichtheycanbe
executed. Thewindowisspecifiedintermsofanearliestpossiblestarttime,ES,andalatest
possible start time, LS. The quantity LS ES is known as the slack of an action. We can
SLACK
see in Figure 11.2 that the whole plan will take 85 minutes, that each action in the top job
has15minutesofslack, andthateachactiononthecritical pathhasnoslack(bydefinition).
Togetherthe ES and LS timesforalltheactions constitute aschedulefortheproblem.
SCHEDULE
Thefollowingformulasserveasadefinitionfor ES and LS andal