of a carrot would depend upon what the purpose is; if we want to draw it, it has shape and colour; if we want to put it in a salad it has grateable structure; if we want to talk of its food qualities, it is composed of different vitamins, minerals, etc; if we want to talk of cooking, it is associated with recipes. Besides, we can even think of it simply as a physical object that can be thrown and caught, as a living thing that can grow, as a container of refreshing juice. So one might say that a carrot is what a carrot does. It is a snack, it is a vegetable, it is an object, and it is a living thing. You could use it for food, or a paperweight, a subject for a painting, or even a weapon to throw at someone. Each such aspect would relate it to other things, by shared properties. We will explore frame based representations of concepts in Chapter 14. 11.2.1 Memory The knowledge that we have resides in our memory. Memory is what we remember or recall. Memory has long been recognized as the seat of knowledge and has been the subject of study for ages. Since the Greek times, human beings have sought techniques for improving memory (Yates, 1966). Since then scholars from many disciplines, psychology, biology, medicine and most recently, the cognitive neuroscience have attempted to study the structure of the brain and the functions of memory. And we, the artificial intelligence community, are waiting to reap the fruits of such research to contribute to the design of machines with minds. The field of cognitive psychology views the human brain as an information processing device which equips the human with knowledge and reasoning capacity to solve problems. The prevalent view is that the brain is structured and made up of different modules, each with its own domain and processes of reasoning (ten Berge and van Hezewijk, 1999). This view has been supported by evolutionary biology as well. The mind is a squadron of simpletons. It is not unified, it is not rational, it is not we