els to traditional logics such as unification, chaining, modus ponens, and even resolution. r Od. IS A nouss Figure 7.4 Property inheritance in a heirarchicat networi L 132 Structured Knowledge: Graphs, Frames, and Related Structures Chap. 7 These procedures are implemented through node and arc matching processes and operators which insert, erase, copy, simplify, and join networks. We examine some typical inferencing procedures in more detail below. Conceptual Graphs Although there are no commonly accepted standards for a syntax and semantics for associative networks, we present an approach in this section which we feel may at least become a de facto standard in the future. It is based on the use of the conceptual graph as a primitive building block for associative networks. The formalism of these graphs has been adopted as a basic representation by a number of Al researchers and a variety of implementations using conceptual graphs are currently under development. Much of the popularity of these graphs has been due to recent work by John Sowa (1984) and his colleagues. A conceptual graph is a graphical portrayal of a mental perception which consists of basic or primitive concepts and the relationships that exist between the concepts. A single conceptual graph is roughly equivalent to a graphical diagram of a natural language sentence where the words are depicted as concepts and relationships. Conceptual graphs may be regarded as formal building blocks for associative networks which, when linked together in a coherent way, form a more complex knowledge structure. An example of such a graph which represents the sentence "Joe is eating soup with a spoon" is depicted in Figure 7.5. In Figure 7.5, concepts are enclosed in boxes and relations between the concepts are enclosed in ovals. The direction of the arrow corresponds to the order of the arguments in the relation they connect. The last or nth arc (argument) points away from the circle relation and all other arcs poi