irst chess playing program in 1957. There was optimism amongst many that machines would soon be the best chess players around, but skepticism amongst others. Herbert Simon (1916-2001) and Alan Newell (1927-1992) said that a computer would be a world champion in ten years. In 1968, David Levy, an international master, wagered a bet that no machine would beat him in the next ten years, and won it by beating the strongest player at that time, from Northwestern University named Chess4.7. However, Levy later lost to Deep Thought , originating from the Carnegie Mellon University, and in 1997, its successor Deep Blue from IBM beat the then reigning world champion, Gary Kasparov. Game playing programs worked with a numerical evaluation function, and processing natural language beckoned as a new avenue of exploration. Noam Chomsky had been developing his theory of generative linguistics and moving on to transformational grammar. Armed with a grammatical model of language, and aided by a bilingual lexicon, machine translation became an area of research, much to the interest of the public. The earliest programs, however, were unable to contend with the richness of language, in particular when dealing with idioms. It was reported in the press that on translating the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak into Russian and back into English, the output read the vodka is fine, but the meat has got spoiled or something to that effect. More interestingly, a natural language parser developed in 1963 by Susumu Kuno at Harvard revealed the degree of ambiguity in English language that often escapes human listeners, who latch on to one parse tree and the corresponding meaning. Given the input Time flies like an arrow , the parser produced at least four interpretations other than the one we normally assume. In 1966, the US government appointed Automatic Language Processing Advisory Committee (ALPAC) produced a negative report leading to a decline in research funding for machine translati