nto
one. Thisisaninstance oftheidentityuncertaintyproblemdiscussed in Section14.6.3.
Ingeneral,finite-statetemplate-basedinformationextractionworkswellforarestricted
domaininwhichitispossible topredetermine whatsubjects willbediscussed, andhowthey
will be mentioned. The cascaded transducer model helps modularize the necessary knowl-
edge, easing construction of the system. These systems work especially well when they are
reverse-engineering textthathasbeengenerated byaprogram. Forexample, ashopping site
onthe Webisgenerated byaprogram thattakesdatabase entriesandformatstheminto Web
pages; a template-based extractor then recovers the original database. Finite-state informa-
tionextraction islesssuccessful atrecovering information inhighly variable format, suchas
textwrittenbyhumansonavarietyofsubjects.
22.4.2 Probabilisticmodels forinformationextraction
Wheninformationextractionmustbeattemptedfromnoisyorvariedinput,simplefinite-state
approaches fare poorly. It is too hard to get all the rules and their priorities right; it is better
touseaprobabilistic modelratherthanarule-based model. Thesimplestprobabilistic model
forsequences withhidden stateisthehidden Markovmodel,or HMM.
Recall from Section 15.3 that an HMM models a progression through a sequence of
hidden states, x , with an observation e at each step. To apply HM Ms to information ex-
t t
traction, we can either build one big HMM for all the attributes or build a separate HMM
for each attribute. We ll do the second. The observations are the words of the text, and the
hiddenstatesarewhetherweareinthetarget, prefix,orpostfixpartoftheattribute template,
orin the background (not part of a template). Forexample, here is a brief text and the most
probable (Viterbi)pathforthattextfortwo HM Ms,onetrainedtorecognize thespeakerina
talkannouncement, andonetrainedtorecognizedates. The - indicatesabackground state:
Text: There will be a seminar by Dr. Andrew Mc Callum on Friday
Speaker: - - - - PRE PRE TARGET TARGET TARGET