olecules that act as chemical messengers to facilitate communication between immune cells. Dendritic cells: Antigen-presenting cells of the immune system, which play a significant role in regulating the adaptive immune response. Immature dendritic cells can evolve internally and process antigens. They are also responsible for activating T lymphocytes. Epithelium: It is one of the major body tissues. It lines the outer skin as also the inside cavities of the body. Epitopes: These can be imagined as the three-dimensional surface features of molecules constituting an antigen which are in turn recognized by the complementary paratopes of the antibody. Genome: Hereditary information as a whole encoded in the DNA/RNA constitutes the genome. Granulocytes: These are leukocytes (white blood cell) that attacks and destroys antigenic substances and have specific granules. Granulocytes are spherical in shape and are categorized as neutrophils', eosinophils, and basophils based on the staining properties of the granules. Leucocytes: Non-haemoglobin-containing blood cells (white blood cells); could be of many types including phagocytic macrophages" and antibody-producing lymphocytes. Most of them occur in their immature form in the bloodstream and only activated when exposed to an antigen. Lymphokines: Soluble chemical messengers (substances) released by activated lymphocytes on contact with specific antigens resulting in enhancement of other cells of the immune system Lysis: Rupture of the cell wall or outer membrane; leads eventually to the destruction of the cell Lysis can be caused by an infection or exposure to chemical substances. Macrophages: Large, white blood cells that can ingest foreign substances and are activated in presence of non-self cells including bacteria, protozoa or tumour cells resulting in the release substances that stimulate other celis of the immune system. Also function as antigen presenters. by displaying antigens produced by the foreign substances on 