oken components' . The space in which the diagnosis algorithm has to search is the power set of . As shown in Figure 17.13, when the device is working the empty set is the only minimal candidate. This is interpreted as saying that having no broken component is consistent with the observations. Here onwards, to facilitate drawing in figures, we shorten the names of the five components of Figure 17.12 to M,, Mo, M3, Ay, and Ao. The following two tasks are the core of the diagnosis algorithm. 1. Conflict Recognition Given an observation OBS, to identify the set of all minimal conflicts for the device. Further, when more observations arrive, to efficiently augment the set of minimal conflicts. 2. Candidate Generation Given a set of minimal conflicts, to identify the candidates for diagnosis. The candidates are the minimal hitting sets corresponding to the set of conflicts. Further, as more conflicts are generated, to modify the candidates in an efficient manner. Candidate Generation We first look at candidate generation. Initially, the set of minimal candidates contains only . At any point, given a set of minimal candidates and a new minimal conflict, the following procedure is adopted. Any minimal candidate that does not explain the new conflict is replaced by one or more supersets of the candidate. Each superset is composed by adding one element of the new conflict to the failed candidate. If any candidate in the new set of candidates is subsumed by another candidate, then it is removed. Figure 17.13 The candidate space in diagnosis. Any subset of the five components may be a candidate. The minimal candidate when the device is working is the empty set. Let us first look at how GDE deals with two conflict sets A,, M,, Ma and A,, Ao, M1, M3 given to it. When it gets the first conflict, there is only one minimal candidate, the empty set, and it does not explain the conflict. Hence it is removed, and replaced by three candidates M , Mp , and A; which are singleton candida