erest in the design of massively parallel machines to support Al programs. Human cognitive theories have also influenced AJ to look for higher-tevel (i.e., far above the neuron level) theories that do not require massive parallelism for their implementation. An early example of this approach can be seen in GPS, which are discussed in more detail in Section 3.6. This same approach can also be seen in much current work in natural language understanding. The failure of straightforward syntactic parsing mechanisms to make much of a dent in the problem of interpreting English sentences has led many people who are interested in natural language understanding by machine to look seriously for inspiration at what little we know about how people interpret language. And when people who are trying to build programs to analyze pictures discover that a filter function they have developed is very similar to what we think people use, they take heart that perhaps they are on the right track. As you can see, this last motivation pervades a great many areas of Al-research. In fact, it, in conjunction.with the other motivations we mentioned, tends to make the distinction between the goal of simulating human performance and the goal of building an intelligent program any way we can seem much less different than they at first appeared. In either case, what we really need is a good model of the processes involved in intelligent reasoning. The field of cognitive science, in which psychologists, linguists, and computer scientists all work together, has as its goal the discovery of such a model. For a good survey of the variety of approaches contained within the field, see Norman [1981], Anderson [1985], and Gardner [1985]. 1.5 CRITERIA FOR SUCCESS One of the most important questions to answer in any scientific or engineering research project is How will we know if we have succeeded? Artificial intelligence is no exception. How will we know if we have constructed a machine that is intelligen