s that there may be a problem in your family and you may need some emotional support. As we talk about understanding, it is important to keep in mind that the success or failure of an understanding program can rarely be measured in an absolute sense but must instead be measured with respect to a particular task to be performed. This is true both of language-understanding programs and also of understanders in other domains, such as vision. For people, understanding applies to inputs from all the senses. Computer understanding has so far been applied primarily to images, speech, and typed Janguage. In this chapter we discuss issues that cut across all of these modalities. In Chapter 15, we explore the problem of typed natural language in more detail, and in Chapter 21, we look at speech and vision problems. Although we have defined understanding above as the process of mapping into appropriate actions, we are not precluding a view of understanding in which inputs are simply interpreted and stored for later. In such a system, the appropriate action is to store the proper representation. This view of understanding describes what occurs in most image understanding programs and some language understanding programs. Taking direct action describes what happens in systems in which language, either typed or spoken, is used in the interface between user and computer. Understanding 273 14.2 WHAT MAKES UNDERSTANDING HARD? There are four major factors that contribute to the difficulty of an understanding problem: 1. The complexity of the target representation into which the matching is being done 2. The type of the mapping: one-one, many-one, one-many, or many-many 3. The level of interaction of the components of the source representation 4. The presence of noise in the input to the understander A few examples will illustrate the importance of each of these factors. Complexity of the Target Representation Suppose English sentences are being used for communication with a keyword-b