ppearance andpattern elements
Many objects produce much more complex patterns than faces do. This is because several
effectscanmovefeaturesaroundinanimageoftheobject. Effectsinclude (Figure24.13) Foreshortening,whichcausesapatternviewedataslanttobesignificantly distorted. Aspect, which causes objects to look different when seen from different directions.
Evenassimpleanobjectasadoughnut hasseveralaspects;seenfromtheside,itlooks
likeaflattenedoval,butfromaboveitisanannulus. Occlusion, where some parts are hidden from some viewing directions. Objects can
occlude one another, or parts of an object can occlude other parts, an effect known as
self-occlusion. Deformation, where internal degrees of freedom of the object change its appearance.
Forexample,peoplecanmovetheirarmsandlegsaround,generatingaverywiderange
ofdifferentbodyconfigurations.
However, our recipe of searching across location and scale can still work. This is because
some structure will be present in the images produced by the object. Forexample, apicture
of a car is likely to show some of headlights, doors, wheels, windows, and hubcaps, though
theymaybeinsomewhatdifferentarrangementsindifferentpictures. Thissuggestsmodeling
objectswithpatternelements collectionsofparts. Thesepatternelementsmaymovearound
Section24.3. Object Recognition by Appearance 945
Foreshortening Aspect
Occlusion Deformation
Figure 24.13 Sources of appearancevariation. First, elements can foreshorten, like the
circular patch on the top left. This patch is viewed at a slant, and so is elliptical in the
image.Second,objectsviewedfromdifferentdirectionscanchangeshapequitedramatically,
aphenomenonknownasaspect. On thetoprightarethreedifferentaspectsofadoughnut.
Occlusion causes the handle of the mug on the bottom left to disappear when the mug is
rotated. In this case, because the body and handle belong to the same mug, we have self-
occlusion.Finally,onthebottomright,someobjectscandeformdramatically.
withrespect toone another, but ifmostof