igenic material resulting in an immune action and producing antibody-secreting plasma cells or forming an immune memory cell. Undeveloped B-cells are auto programmed to die (apoptosis'). What is most significant of the immune system is its ability to recognize all antigens. The receptors are capable of recognizing both the self and non-self cells as also artificially synthesized molecules. 24.5.3. Immune Memory Some of the activated Tand B-cells differentiate to form memory cells that continue to circulate within the body for a long period of time. Such memory cells guarantee protection from the same (specific or near similar) antigen that caused its generation. As pointed out earlier the existence of such cells is proof of the body having been exposed to the antigen. These cells ensure a more rapid immune response to a secondary infection (attack) by the same antigen. 24.6 RECOGNITION Both Band T-cells recognize an antigen using what are termed as receptors. Receptors are basically polypeptide chains present on the surface of the cell. The shape and characteristics of these receptors decide the degree of affinity between the ceil and the antigen. Figure 24.3 shows how the B-cells recognize the antigen. The antigens present their epitopes that are recognized by the receptors of the ceils. Though antigens could have a range of differently shaped epitopes on their surface the receptors can recognize only specific ones. Antigen ~+ Epitope Fig. 24.3 Recognition of an Antigen by a B-Cell 24.6.1 B-cell Receptor (BCR) Antigen binding In 1987, Susumu Tonegawa, described a typical antibody molecule as one that comprised two pairs of polypeptide chains ~ a light pair and a heavy pair as shown in Fig. 24.4. Investigations have revealed that there are two regions Variable [ight regions within the antibody molecule a highly variable region and a Constant comparatively rigid constant region. The variable or the regions V-region is the one that is responsible for antigenic recogni