esentation for a content-addressable memory, in which each structure is stored as a collection of active units. One might be tempted to say that digital computers also use distributed representations. After all, a small integer is stored in a distributed fashion, as a pattern of activation over eight storage locations, each of which represents one bit of data. An extreme localist approach, on the other hand, would be to use 256 bits per integer, only one of which could be active at any given time. However, besides storing objects as patterns across many units, distributed representations have another important property, namely that stored objects may be superimposed on one another. One set of units can thus store many different objects. It is clearly impossible to store two 8-bit integers in one 8-bit place-holder, so we do not view such an encoding as a truly distributed representation. Distributed representations have several advantages over localist ones. For one thing, they are more resistant to damage. If NETL loses its elephant unit somehow, then it immediately loses all ability to reason or remember about elephants. This fragility is undesirable if our goal is to build very large systems from unreliable parts. Also, it does not conform to what we know about human and animal memory. Lashley [1929] performed a number of classic experiments concerning memories in rats. Lashley wanted to find out in which part of its brain a rat stores its knowledge of how to mun a particular maze. In the experiments, rats brains were lesioned in many different places. Performance degraded in ali rats in proportion to the size of the lesion, but the location of the lesion had no special effect on performance. Lashley concluded that the memory of how to run the maze was somehow stored in a distributed fashion across the entire rat cortex. Such a memory organization has been described using a hologram metaphor, in reference to the holographic storage medium, which allows the recons