or not possible). illustrate the tAsHHUd- WHF the example we had seen earlier. We need to show that following is true. (PA Q) A(PD R) A (RA 8) DTA (7QV S) A (AUA AV) DT) olution proof is often better visualized as a directed graph. Each node in the graph represents a cla presenting the premises have no incoming arcs. Every other node has two incoming arcs, from that it is resolved from. A node may have multiple outgoing arcs, since it may be used in any ni 1 steps. Figure 12.10 below depicts the proof given above as a directed graph. esolution proof of a formula is not unique. There may be many different ways of deriving the nu 2.11 below shows another proof. 1ew proof is in fact quite similar to the earlier direct proof by forward reasoning. In fact, the part of the ed region actually produces the clause 7, and that is resolved with the negated goal clause 7T to pro se. One can also identify the step resolving Q and (-Q V S) as the disjunctive syllogism rule proc since one may substitute (Q D S) for ( Q V S) we can also see this as an application of the modu: resolution rule in fact subsumes the other rules, and as we will see when we look at first order resolt of a complete logic machine, whereas the other rules by themselves may not be complete. rroblem of choosing the clauses still remains though, and a number of strategies have been propc few of them here, and one more in the first order case. Qvs aPvR arvasvr P Fu - S .10 The resolution proof as a directed graph. azirfut.com .11 An alternative resolution proof. Support clause represents a contradiction. The premises are presumed to be true. The contradiction arises he negation of the goal to the set of clauses. The set of support strategy says that at every resolu e clauses must be the goal clause or derived form the goal clause. Neither of the two refutations sho ses this strategy, but it is possible to find a refutation that does. reference is to derive the null clause. The null clause has zero literals. Let