rawings. In Chapter 15 we then look in depth at the problem of natural language understanding and see how it too can be viewed as a constraint satisfaction process. Consider the drawing shown in Fig. 14.9. Assume either that you have been given this drawing as the input or that lower-level routines have already operated to extract these lines from an input photograph. The next step in the analysis process is to determine the objects described by the lines. To do this, we need first to Fig. 14.9 A Line Drawing identify each of the lines in the figure as representing either: An Obscuring Edge A boundary between objects, or between objects and the background A Concave Edge An edge between two faces that form an acute angle when viewed from outside the object A Convex Edge An edge between two faces that form an obtuse angle when viewed from outside the object For more complex figures, other edge types, such as cracks between coplanar faces and shadow edges between shadows and the background, would also be required. The approach we describe here has, in fact, Understanding 279 | been extended to handle these other edge types. But to make the explanation straightforward, we consider { only these three. In fact, we consider only figures composed exclusively of trikedral vertices, which i are vertices at which exactly three planes come together. Figure 14.10 shows examples of trihedral figures. Figure 14,11 shows examples of nontrihedral figures. SS Y Fig. 14.10 Some Trihedrail Figures LP & PB Fig. 14.11 Some Nontrihedral Figures Determining the Constraints The problem we are trying to solve is how to recognize individual objects in a figure. To do that, we intend first to label ali the lines in the figure so that we know which ones correspond to boundaries between objects. We use the three line types given above. For boundary lines, we also need to indicate a direction, telling which side of the line corresponds to the object and which to the background. This produces a se