. 24 354 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 15.7 SUMMARY Expert and other knowledge-based Systems are usually composed of 4t least a knowledge base, an inference engine, and some form of user interface. The knowledge base, which is separate from the inference and control components, contains the expert knowledge coded in some form such as production rules, networks of frames or other representation scheme. The inference engine manipulates the knowledge structures in the knowledge base to perform a type of symbolic reasoning and draw useful conclusions relating to the current task. The user interface provides the means for dialog between the user and system. The user inputs commands, queries, and responses to system messages, and the system, in turn, produces various messages for the user. In addition to these three components, most systems have an editor for use in creating and modifying the knowledge base structurea and an explanaton module which provides the user with explanations of how a conclusion was reached or why a piece of knowledge s needed. /-. te" s terns also have some learning capability and a ca . history file with whie . ,Omr'' " lonsultatio,'s. A variety of expert system architectureshave been construied including rulebased systems, frame-based systems, decision tree (discrimination network) systems, analogical reasoning systems, blackboard architectures, theorem proving systems, and even neural network architectures. These systems may differ in the direction of rule chaining, in the handling of uncertainty, and in the search and pattern matching methods employed. Rule and frame based systems are by far the most popular architectures used. Since the introduction of the first expert systems in the late 1970s, a number of building tools have been developed. Such tools may be as unsophisticated as a bare high level language or as comprehensive as a complete shell development environment. A few representative building tools have been described and so