path for the robot. Fig. 21.7 Constructing a Visibility Graph Most robots have bulky extent, however, and we must take this into account when we plan paths. Consider the problem poy shown in Fig. 21.8, where the robot has a pentagonal shape. start> | goal Fortunately, we can reduce this problem to the previous pathplanning problem. The algorithm is as follows: First choose a Fig. 21.8 Another Path Planning Problem point P on the surface of the robot, then increase the size of the obstacles so that they cover all points that P cannot enter, because of the physical size and shape of the robot. Now, simply construct and search a visibility graph based on P and the vertices of the new obstacles, as in Fig. 21.9. The basic idea is to reduce the robot to a point P and do path planning in an artificially constructed space, known as configuration space, or c-space (Lozano-Perez et al., 1984}. If we want to allow rotations, we can represent the robot as a combination of point P and some angle of rotation @ The robot can now be considered as a point moving through three-dimensional space (x, y, 0). Obstacles can be transformed into three-dimensional c space objects, and a visibility graph can again be created and searched. An alternative approach to obstacle avoidance is the use of potential fields [Khatib, 1986], With this technique, the direction of a moving robot is continually recomputed as a function of its current position relative to obstacles and its destination. The robot is essentially repelled by obstacles and attracted to the destination point. This approach is especially useful for correcting positioning errors that accumulate during a robot s journey and for dealing with unexpected obstacles. It can be combined with configuration space path planning to enable robust navigation [Krogh and Thorpe, 1986]. Road following is another navigational task that has received a great deal of attention: The object of road following is to steer a moving vehicle so that it stay