 isnotnullthen
return EXTRACT-SOLUTION(model)
returnfailure
Figure 7.22 The SATPLAN algorithm. The planning problem is translated into a CNF
sentenceinwhichthegoalisassertedtoholdatafixedtimesteptandaxiomsareincluded
foreachtimestepuptot. Ifthesatisfiabilityalgorithmfindsamodel,thenaplanisextracted
by looking at those proposition symbols that refer to actions and are assigned true in the
model.Ifnomodelexists,thentheprocessisrepeatedwiththegoalmovedonesteplater.
The key step in using SATPLAN is the construction of the knowledge base. It might
seem, on casual inspection, that the wumpus world axioms in Section 7.7.1 suffice forsteps
1(a)and1(b)above. Thereis,however,asignificantdifference betweentherequirements for
entailment (as tested by ASK)and those forsatisfiability. Consider, forexample, theagent s
location, initially 1,1 , and suppose the agent s unambitious goal isto be in 2,1 attime 1.
Theinitialknowledgebasecontains L0 andthegoalis L1 . Using ASK,wecanprove L1
1,1 2,1 2,1
if Forward0 is asserted, and, reassuringly, we cannot prove L1 if, say, Shoot0 is asserted
2,1
instead. Now, SATPLAN will find the plan Forward0 ; so far, so good. Unfortunately,
SATPLA Nalsofindstheplan Shoot0 . Howcouldthisbe? Tofindout,weinspectthemodel
that SATPLAN constructs: it includes the assignment L0 , that is, the agent can be in 2,1 2,1
attime1bybeingthereattime0andshooting. Onemightask, Didn twesaytheagentisin 1,1 attime0? Yes,wedid,butwedidn ttelltheagentthatitcan tbeintwoplacesatonce!
For entailment, L0 is unknown and cannot, therefore, be used in a proof; for satisfiability,
2,1
Section7.7. Agents Basedon Propositional Logic 273
on the other hand, L0 is unknown and can, therefore, be set to whatever value helps to
2,1
makethegoaltrue. Forthisreason, SATPLAN isagooddebuggingtoolforknowledgebases
because it reveals places where knowledge is missing. Inthis particular case, wecan fixthe
knowledgebasebyassertingthat,ateachtimestep,theagentisinexactlyonelocation,using
acollectio