rview of the methodology of deci-
sion analysis. Influence diagrams were introduced by Howard and Matheson (1984), based
on earlier work at SRI (Miller et al., 1976). Howard and Matheson s method involved the
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 639
derivationofadecisiontreefromadecisionnetwork,butin generalthetreeisofexponential
size. Shachter(1986) developed amethod formaking decisions based directly onadecision
network, without the creation of an intermediate decision tree. This algorithm was also one
of the first to provide complete inference formultiply connected Bayesian networks. Zhang
etal.(1994)showedhowtotakeadvantageofconditionalindependenceofinformationtore-
ducethesizeoftreesinpractice;theyusethetermdecisionnetworkfornetworksthatusethis
approach(although othersuseitasasynonymforinfluencediagram). Nilssonand Lauritzen
(2000) link algorithms for decision networks to ongoing developments in clustering algo-
rithmsfor Bayesiannetworks. Kollerand Milch(2003)showhowinfluencediagramscanbe
usedtosolvegamesthatinvolvegathering information byopposing players, and Detwarasiti
and Shachter(2005) show how influence diagrams can beused as anaid todecision making
for a team that shares goals but is unable to share all information perfectly. The collection
by Oliverand Smith(1990)hasanumberofusefularticlesondecisionnetworks,asdoesthe
1990specialissueofthejournal Networks. Papersondecisionnetworksandutilitymodeling
alsoappearregularly inthejournals Management Science and Decision Analysis.
The theory of information value was explored first in the context of statistical experi-
ments,whereaquasi-utility (entropy reduction) wasused(Lindley,1956). The Russiancon-
troltheorist Ruslan Stratonovich(1965)developedthemoregeneraltheorypresentedhere,in
which information has value by virtue of its ability to affect decisions. Stratonovich s work
was not known in the West, where Ron Howard (1966) pioneered the same idea. His paper
endswiththeremark Ifinformationvaluetheoryandassoci