lore in this book as well. Incidentally, Charniak s implementations were also done in Micro-Planner. A similar view was expressed by Roger Schank and his students at Yale University. They did a considerable amount of work, hand coding knowledge into complex systems that could read stories and answer questions about them in an intelligent fashion. This effort peaked in the eighties, with the program BORIS written by Michael Dyer. People whose research approach was to build large working systems with lots of knowledge were sometimes referred to as scruffies , as approached to the neats who focused on logic and formal algorithms. But the effort of carefully crafting complex knowledge structures was becoming too much, and by then, the pendulum was swinging in Al research towards neat general purpose, problem solving methods. Machines were getting faster; neural networks were on the ascendant; and approaches to knowledge discovery were showing promise. A decade or so later, even language research would start taking a statistical hue. One of Schank s ideas was that stories follow patterns, like Scripts, and that story understanding requires knowledge of such pattern structures. There were other people who investigated structured knowledge representations as well. A well known formalism is the theory of Frames, proposed by Marvin Minsky in 1974, which explored how knowledge exists in structured groups related to other frames by different kinds of relations. The idea of Frames eventually led to in the development of Object Oriented Programming Systems. A related idea was that of Semantic Nets proposed by Richard H Richens and developed by Ross Quillian in the early sixties. The approach of representing knowledge as a network of interconnected networks was taken up by John Sowa in his Conceptual Graphs in the eighties. And now the system Wordnet developed at Princeton University is a valuable resource for anyone interested in getting at the knowledge behind lexical utterance