iscrete or
continuous. Fornow wewillconcentrate on problems where the inputs have discrete values
and the output has exactly two possible values; this is Boolean classification, where each
exampleinputwillbeclassifiedastrue(apositiveexample)orfalse(anegativeexample).
POSITIVE
A decision tree reaches its decision by performing a sequence of tests. Each internal
NEGATIVE
node in the tree corresponds to a test of the value of one of the input attributes, A , and
i
the branches from the node are labeled with the possible values of the attribute, A v .
i ik
Each leaf node in the tree specifies avalue to be returned by the function. The decision tree
representation is natural for humans; indeed, many How To manuals (e.g., for car repair)
arewrittenentirelyasasingledecision treestretching overhundreds ofpages.
As an example, we will build a decision tree to decide whether to wait for a table at a
restaurant. The aim here is to learn a definition for the goal predicate Will Wait. First we
GOALPREDICATE
listtheattributes thatwewillconsideraspartoftheinput:
1. Alternate: whetherthereisasuitablealternative restaurant nearby.
2. Bar: whethertherestaurant hasacomfortable barareatowaitin.
3. Fri Sat: trueon Fridaysand Saturdays.
4. Hungry: whetherwearehungry.
5. Patrons: howmanypeopleareintherestaurant (valuesare None,Some,and Full).
6. Price: therestaurant s pricerange( , , ).
7. Raining: whetheritisrainingoutside.
8. Reservation: whetherwemadeareservation.
9. Type: thekindofrestaurant (French,Italian,Thai,orburger).
10. Wait Estimate: thewaitestimatedbythehost(0 10minutes,10 30, 30 60, or 60).
Note that every variable has a small set of possible values; the value of Wait Estimate, for
example, isnot aninteger, rather itisone ofthefourdiscrete values 0 10, 10 30, 30 60, or 60. Thedecisiontreeusuallyusedbyoneofus(SR)forthisdomainisshownin Figure18.2.
Noticethatthetreeignoresthe Price and Type attributes. Examplesareprocessedbythetree
starting attherootandfollowing theappropriate 