re is to say about the agent. Mathematically speaking, we say that an agent s behavior is
described bytheagentfunctionthatmapsanygivenperceptsequence toanaction.
AGENTFUNCTION
Wecan imagine tabulating the agent function that describes any given agent; formost
agents, this would be a very large table infinite, in fact, unless we place a bound on the
lengthofperceptsequenceswewanttoconsider. Givenanagenttoexperimentwith,wecan,
in principle, construct this table by trying out all possible percept sequences and recording
whichactionstheagentdoesinresponse.1 Thetableis,ofcourse,anexternalcharacterization
of the agent. Internally, the agent function for an artificial agent will be implemented by an
agent program. It is important to keep these two ideas distinct. The agent function is an
AGENTPROGRAM
abstract mathematical description; the agent program is a concrete implementation, running
withinsomephysicalsystem.
To illustrate these ideas, we use a very simple example the vacuum-cleaner world
shown in Figure 2.2. This world is so simple that we can describe everything that happens;
it salsoamade-upworld,sowecaninventmanyvariations. Thisparticularworldhasjusttwo
locations: squares A and B. The vacuum agent perceives which square it is in and whether
there is dirt in the square. It can choose to move left, move right, suck up the dirt, or do
nothing. One very simple agent function is the following: if the current square is dirty, then
suck;otherwise,movetotheothersquare. Apartialtabulationofthisagentfunctionisshown
in Figure2.3andanagentprogram thatimplementsitappears in Figure2.8onpage48.
Lookingat Figure2.3,weseethatvarious vacuum-world agentscanbedefinedsimply
byfillingintheright-handcolumninvariousways. Theobviousquestion,then,isthis: What
is the right way to fill out the table? In other words, what makes an agent good or bad,
intelligent orstupid? Weanswerthesequestions inthenextsection.
1 Iftheagentusessomerandomizationtochoose itsactions, thenwewouldhavetotryeachseq