 related to perception and Communication. The first chapter. Chapter 12 covers the subfield of natural language processing. Although only a single chapter has been devoted to this subject, the treatment is thorough. Chapter 13 presents a condensation of important topics from pattern recognition. Chapter 14 presents a comprehensive treatment of the important topic of computer vision. And, Chapter 15 has an introduction to Expert System architectures and related topics. Part V. the final section, presents an up-to-date, comprehensive view of knowl edge acquisition/machine learning. All of the in-iportmnt learning paradigms are covered in this part. Chapter 16 begins with general concepts related to knowledge acquisition. This is followed in Chapter 17 with a summary of early work in machine. learning. Chapter 18 introduces inductive learning concepts and presents a detailed example of an inductive learning system. Chapter 19 continues inductive learning with examples of recent systems. Chapter 20, the final chapter, covers analogical and explanation-based learning paradigms. We hope the reader will experience many enjoyable and rewarding sessions reading from the exciting material to be found in the text. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS In writing this text, a number of individuals have been helpful with their suggestions and comments. They include the following students: Teow Kiang Chew, Teck Huat Goh. Julie Lemen, Sergio Felix, Ricardo Martinez, Vincente Fresquez, 1-tun-Ming Hsu, Rudy Velasquez, and Jose Najera-Mora. Special thanks are given to E. Louise (Neslie) Patterson for proofreading most of the manuscript and offering many useful suggestions. Thanks are also given to the following reviewers for their valuable suggestions: Christopher K. Carlson, George Mason University; Daniel Chester, University of Delaware; Karen L. Mc Graw, Cognitive Technologies; and Gordon Novak, University of Texas, Austin. Finally, I wish to thank the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Depart