ed on unique names and domain closure drew on the representational capa-
bilities of logic programming (Poole, 1993; Sato and Kameya, 1997; Kersting et al., 2000)
and semantic networks (Koller and Pfeffer, 1998; Pfeffer, 2000). Pfeffer (2007) went on to
develop IBAL,whichrepresents first-order probability models asprobabilistic programs ina
programming language extended with a randomization primitive. Another important thread
was the combination of relational and first-order notations with (undirected) Markov net-
works (Taskar et al., 2002; Domingos and Richardson, 2004), where the emphasis has been
lessonknowledgerepresentation andmoreonlearning fromlargedatasets.
Initially,inferenceinthesemodelswasperformedbygeneratinganequivalent Bayesian
network. Pfeffer et al. (1999) introduced a variable elimination algorithm that cached each
computed factor for reuse by later computations involving the same relations but different
objects, thereby realizing some of the computational gains of lifting. The first truly lifted
inference algorithm wasalifted form of variable elimination described by Poole (2003) and
subsequently improved by de Salvo Braz et al. (2007). Further advances, including cases
wherecertainaggregateprobabilitiescanbecomputedinclosedform,aredescribedby Milch
etal.(2008)and Kisynskiand Poole(2009). Pasulaand Russell(2001)studiedtheapplication
of MCMC to avoid building the complete equivalent Bayes net in cases of relational and
identity uncertainty. Getoor and Taskar (2007) collect many important papers on first-order
probability modelsandtheiruseinmachinelearning.
Probabilistic reasoning about identity uncertainty has two distinct origins. In statis-
tics, theproblem of record linkagearises whendata records donotcontain standard unique
RECORDLINKAGE
identifiers for example, various citations of this book might name its first author Stuart
Russell or S. J. Russell oreven Stewart Russle, and other authors may use the some of
the same names. Literally hundred