ound to the parameters in the same order they were given in the definition. The parameters are actually dummy variables (nt, n2, n3 in averagethree) used to make it possible to give a function a general definition. 26 LISP tnaothel"AI Prdgrathmlng'Lihguag s Chap. 3 Predicate Functions Predicates are functions that test their arguments for some specific condition. Except for the predicate "member" (defined above), predicates return true (t) or false (nil), depending on the arguments. The most common predicates are atom >= equal listp evenp null grenterp (or >) numberp oddp lesap tor <) zerop The predicate ''atom" takes lone arument. It returns t if the argument is an tom and nil otherwise. Equal takes two arguments and returns t if they evaluate to the same value, and nil otherwise. Evenp, numberp, oddp, and zerop are tests on a single numeric argument. They return t if their argument evaluates to an even number, a number, an odd number, or zero respectively. Otherwise they each return nil. Greaterp and lessp each take one or more arguments. If there IS only one argument, each returns I. If more than one argument is used, greaterp returns t if the arguments, from left to right, are successively larger otherwise nil is returned. Lcssp requires that the arguments be successively smaller from left to right to return I. Otherwise it returns nil. The predicates > and < have the same meaning as greaterp and lessp respectively, except they return t if successive elements are also equa' Finally listp and null both take a single argument. Listp returns (if its argument evalt'.ttes to a list, and nil otherwise. Null returns t if its argument evaluates to ni L othuwisc it returns nil. Examples for calls using each of these predicates are given in Table 3.4. TABLE 3.4 THE MOST COMMON PREDICATE CALLS Value Function call returned Remarks (atom 'aahb) I aabb is a valid atom (equal a (Car (a b)) a equals a. but note that (equal I 1.0) returns nil (cvenp nil 3 is not an even number (