here have been several attempts to devise uncertain reasoning schemes that retain these
advantages. The idea is to attach degrees of belief to propositions and rules and to devise
purely local schemes for combining and propagating those degrees of belief. The schemes
548 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
arealsotruth-functional; forexample,thedegreeofbeliefin A B isafunctionofthebelief
in Aandthebeliefin B.
Thebadnewsforrule-based systems isthattheproperties of locality, detachment, and
truth-functionality are simply not appropriate for uncertain reasoning. Let us look at truth-
functionality first. Let H betheeventthatafaircoinflipcomesupheads,let T betheevent
1 1
that the coin comes up tails on that same flip, and let H be the event that the coin comes
2
up heads on a second flip. Clearly, all three events have the same probability, 0.5, and so a
truth-functional system must assign the same belief to the disjunction of any two of them.
But we can see that the probability of the disjunction depends on the events themselves and
notjustontheirprobabilities:
P(A) P(B) P(A B)
P(H ) 0.5 P(H H ) 0.50
1 1 1
P(H ) 0.5 P(T ) 0.5 P(H T ) 1.00
1 1 1 1
P(H ) 0.5 P(H H ) 0.75
2 1 2
It gets worse when we chain evidence together. Truth-functional systems have rules of the
form A B that allow us to compute the belief in B as a function of the belief in the rule
andthebeliefin A. Bothforward-andbackward-chaining systemscanbedevised. Thebelief
intheruleisassumedtobeconstantandisusuallyspecifiedbytheknowledgeengineer for
example,as A B.
0.9
Consider the wet-grass situation from Figure 14.12(a) (page 529). If we wanted to be
abletodobothcausalanddiagnostic reasoning, wewouldneedthetworules
Rain Wet Grass and Wet Grass Rain .
Thesetworulesform afeedback loop: evidence for Rain increases thebelief in Wet Grass,
which in turn increases the belief in Rain even more. Clearly, uncertain reasoning systems
needtokeeptrackofthepathsalongwhichevidence ispropagated.
Intercausal reasoning (orex