nded interpretation specifiesadomainelementtowhich xrefers.
Thissoundscomplicated,butitisreallyjustacarefulwayofstatingtheintuitivemean-
ing of universal quantification. Consider the model shown in Figure 8.2 and the intended
interpretation thatgoeswithit. Wecanextendtheinterpretation infiveways:
x Richardthe Lionheart,
x King John,
x Richard sleftleg,
x John sleftleg,
x thecrown.
Theuniversallyquantifiedsentence x King(x) Person(x)istrueintheoriginalmodel
if the sentence King(x) Person(x) is true under each of the five extended interpreta-
tions. Thatis,theuniversally quantifiedsentence isequivalent toasserting thefollowingfive
sentences:
Richardthe Lionheartisaking Richardthe Lionheartisaperson.
King Johnisaking King Johnisaperson.
Richard sleftlegisaking Richard sleftlegisaperson.
John sleftlegisaking John sleftlegisaperson.
Thecrownisaking thecrownisaperson.
Let us look carefully at this set of assertions. Since, in our model, King John is the only
king, the second sentence asserts that he is a person, as we would hope. But what about
the other four sentences, which appear to make claims about legs and crowns? Is that part
of the meaning of All kings are persons ? In fact, the other four assertions are true in the
model, but make no claim whatsoever about the personhood qualifications of legs, crowns,
orindeed Richard. Thisisbecause noneofthese objects isaking. Lookingatthetruthtable
for (Figure 7.8 on page 246), we see that the implication is true whenever its premise is
false regardless ofthetruthoftheconclusion. Thus,byasserting theuniversally quantified
sentence, which is equivalent to asserting a whole list of individual implications, we end
up asserting the conclusion of the rule just for those objects for whom the premise is true
and saying nothing at all about those individuals for whom the premise is false. Thus, the
truth-table definition of turns out to be perfect for writing general rules with universal
quantifiers.
Acommonmistake,madefrequently even