stead unary predicates corresponding to the classes are often used. The second point is more general. There are usually several different ways of representing a given fact within a particular representational framework, be it logic or anything else. The choice depends partly on which deductions need to be supported most efficiently and partly on taste. The only important thing is that within a particular knowledge base consistency of representation is critical, Since any particular inference rule is designed to work on one particular form of representation, it is necessary that all the knowledge to which that rule is intended to apply be in the form that the rule demands. Many errors in the reasoning performed by knowledge-based programs are the result of inconsistent representation decisions. The moral is simply to be careful. There is one additional point that needs to be made here on the subject of the use of isa hierarchies in logicbased systems. The reason that these hierarchies are so important is not that they permit the inference of superclass membership. It is that by permitting the inference of superclass membership, they permit the inference of other properties associated with membership in that superclass. So, for example, in our sample knowledge base it is important to be able to conclude that Marcus is a Roman because we have some relevant knowledge about Romans, namely that they either hate Caesar or are loyal to him. But recall that in the baseball example of Chapter 4, we were able to associate knowledge with superclasses that could then be overridden by more specific knowledge associated either with individual instances or with subclasses. In other words, we recorded default values that could be accessed whenever necessary. For example, there was a height associated with adult males and a different height associated with baseball players. Our procedure for manipulating the isa hierarchy guaranteed that we always found the correct (i.e., most specif