) instructions: To make the forte, first make the cake, then, while the cake is baking, make the filling. To make the cake, combine all ingredients. Pour them into the pans, and bake for 30 minutes. To make the filling, combine the ingredients. Mix until light and fluffy. When the cake is done, alternate layers of cake and filling. This task decomposes into three subtasks: making the cake, making the filling, and combining the two components. The structure of the paragraph of instructions is: overall sketch of the task, instructions for step 1, instructions for step 2, and then instructions for step 3. A second property of coherent discourse is that dramatic changes of focus are usually signaled explicitly with phrases such as on the other hand, to return to an earlier topic, or a second issue is. 316 Artificial Intelligence Assuming that all this knowledge has been used successfully to focus on the relevant part(s) of the knowledge base, the second issue is how to use the focused knowledge to help in understanding. There are as many ways of doing this as there are discourse phenomena that require it. In the last section, we presented a sample list of those phenomena. To give one example, consider the problem of finding the meaning of definite noun phrases. Definite noun phrases are ones that refer to specific individual objects, for exampie, the first noun phrase in the sentence, The title page was torn. The title page in question is assumed to be one that is related to an object that is currently in focus. So the procedure for finding a meaning for it involves searching for ways in which a title page could be related to a focused object. Of course, in some sense, almost any object in a knowledge base relates somehow to almost any other. But some relations are far more salient than others, and they should be considered first. Highly salient relations include physical-part-of, temporal-part-of, and elementof. In this example, physical-part-of relates the title page 