xels. The Gaussian filter does just that.
GAUSSIANFILTER
(Usersof Photoshoprecognize thisasthe Gaussianbluroperation.) Recallthatthe Gaussian
function withstandard deviation andmean0is
N (x) 1 e x2 2 2 inonedimension, or 2 N (x,y) 1 e (x2 y2) 2 2 intwodimensions. 2 2
The application of the Gaussian filter replaces the intensity I(x ,y ) with the sum, over all
0 0
(x,y) pixels, of I(x,y)N (d), where d is the distance from (x ,y ) to (x,y). This kind of 0 0
weighted sum isso common that there is aspecial name and notation forit. Wesay that the
function histheconvolution oftwofunctions f andg (denoted f g)ifwehave
CONVOLUTION
(cid:12) h(x) (f g)(x) f(u)g(x u) inonedimension, or
u (cid:12) (cid:12) h(x,y) (f g)(x,y) f(u,v)g(x u,y v) intwo.
u v Sothesmoothingfunctionisachievedbyconvolving theimagewiththe Gaussian,I N . A of1pixelisenoughtosmoothoverasmallamountofnoise,whereas2pixelswillsmootha
largeramount,butatthelossofsomedetail. Becausethe Gaussian s influencefadesquickly
atadistance, wecanreplace the inthesumswith 3 .
Wecanoptimizethecomputation bycombiningsmoothingandedgefindingintoasin-
gleoperation. Itisatheoremthatforanyfunctions f andg,thederivativeoftheconvolution,
(f g) (cid:2) , is equal to the convolution with the derivative, f (g (cid:2) ). So rather than smoothing
theimage and then differentiating, wecan just convolve the imagewith thederivative ofthe
(cid:2)
smoothing function, N . We then mark as edges those peaks in the response that are above somethreshold.
Thereisanatural generalization ofthisalgorithm fromone-dimensional crosssections
togeneraltwo-dimensional images. Intwodimensionsedgesmaybeatanyangle . Consid-
eringtheimagebrightness asascalarfunction ofthevariables x,y,itsgradient isavector
(cid:31)
(cid:13) (cid:14) I
I I x x . I I
y y
Edgescorrespond tolocationsinimageswherethebrightnessundergoes asharpchange, and
so the magnitude of the gradient, I , should be large at an edge point. Of independent
interestisthedirectionofthegradient
(cid:13) (