recognitigg Natural language generation Image processing Qualitative reasoning Fuzzy sets X Logic Graphics Computer vigion Knowledge representation Beil Semantics Ontology Neural networfs Machine leaming I Knowladge discovery Search ited f Memory Pattern recogiyt ion Tactile sensin, Planning o s Adversarial reasoning. a Problem solving Bpbor control , Handling uncertainty Se ea os Sense Deliberate Act FIGURE 1.3 A sampling of the society of the mind . Different kinds of reasoning methods would be required by an intelligent mind, as it goes through a sense-deliberate-act cycle. The dashed circle represents symbolic reasoning in artificial intelligence. But the core of intelligence lies in the centre, dealing with knowledge, language and reasoning. These are the faculties we believe lower forms of life do not possess. These are the means that make imagination possible: the ability to conceptualize and create models of the world around us; to categorize things and create memories of our experiences; to reason with what we know and make predictions by projecting actions into the future; to handle uncertainty and incomplete knowledge; to take into account the options of adversaries and collaborators, and to formulate problems and search for their solutions. These are the topics that will form the subject matter of our text. These are the processes that can be modelled as operating on symbol systems. One could adopt the view that the agent and the world it interacts with are entirely symbolic in nature. In practice, however, we often build systems that treat the external world as analog, consisting of continuous signals. Thus, we talk of speech signals which we digitize to create digital sequences. One can imagine that the core symbolic reasoning system has a shell of processes around it that converts signals to symbols and vice versa. It has been empirically observed that neural networks and fuzzy reasoning systems can serve as a bridge between symbolic representations a