urs more than once, it must be assigned the same digit each time. No two different letters may be assigned the same digit. People s strategies for solving cryptarithmetic problems have been, studied intensively by Newell and Simon [1972]. SUMMARY In this chapter, we bave discussed the first two steps that must be taken toward the design of a program to solve a particular problem: 1. Define the problem precisely. Specify the problem space, the operators for moving within the space, and the starting and goal state(s). 2. Analyze the problem to determine where it falls with respect to seven important issues. The last two steps for developing a program to solve that problem are, of course: 3. Identify and represent the knowledge required by the task. 4, Choose one or more techniques for problem solving, and apply those techniques to the problem. Several general-purpose, problem-solving techniques are presented in the next chapter, and several of them have already been alluded to in the discussion of the problem characteristics in this chapter. The relationships between problem characteristics and specific techniques should become even clearer as we go on, Then, in Part II, we discuss the issue of how domain knowledge is to be represented. EXERCISES 1. In this chapter, the following problems were mentioned: Chess e Water jug * 8-puzzle e Traveling salesman * Missionaries and cannibals e Tower of Hanoi Monkey and bananas Cryptarithmetic e Bridge Analyze each of them with respect to the seven problem characteristics discussed in Section 2.3. 2. Before we can solve a problem using state space search, we must define an appropriate state space. For each of the problems mentioned above for which it was not done in the text, find a good state space representation. . 3. Describe how the branch-and-bound technique could be used to find the shortest solution to a water jug problem. Problems, Problem Spaces, and Search 49 . For each of the following types of problems, try to descri