cutive lotteries can be compressed into a single equivalent lottery, as shown
in Figure16.1(b).3 p,A; 1 p, q,B; 1 q,C p,A; (1 p)q,B; (1 p)(1 q),C .
These constraints are known as the axioms of utility theory. Each axiom can be motivated
by showing that an agent that violates it will exhibit patently irrational behavior in some
situations. Forexample, we can motivate transitivity by making an agent with nontransitive
preferences give us all its money. Suppose that the agent has the nontransitive preferences
A B C A, where A, B, and C are goods that can be freely exchanged. If the agent
currently has A, then we could offer to trade C for A plus one cent. The agent prefers C,
andsowould bewilling tomakethistrade. Wecould then offer totrade B for C,extracting
another cent, and finally trade A for B. This brings us back where we started from, except
that theagent hasgiven usthree cents (Figure16.1(a)). Wecankeep going around thecycle
untiltheagenthasnomoneyatall. Clearly, theagenthasactedirrationally inthiscase.
16.2.2 Preferences leadto utility
Noticethattheaxiomsofutilitytheoryarereallyaxiomsaboutpreferences theysaynothing
about a utility function. But in fact from the axioms of utility we can derive the following
consequences (fortheproof, seevon Neumannand Morgenstern, 1944): Existenceof Utility Function: Ifanagent spreferencesobeytheaxiomsofutility,then
there exists a function U such that U(A) U(B) if and only if A is preferred to B,
and U(A) U(B)ifandonlyiftheagentisindifferent between Aand B.
U(A) U(B) A B
U(A) U(B) A B Expected Utility of a Lottery: Theutility of a lottery is the sum of the probability of
eachoutcometimestheutilityofthatoutcome.
(cid:12)
U( p ,S ;...;p ,S ) p U(S ).
1 1 n n i i
i
3 Wecan account forthe enjoyment of gambling by encoding gambling events intothestatedescription; for
example, Have 10andgambled couldbepreferredto Have 10anddidn tgamble. 614 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
A
p
A B
q
1 1 (1 p)
(1 q)
C
is equivalent to
A
B C p
(1 p)q