e reached when, 1. pAB 0 2. pAB 0 and amtB BMAX 3. amtB BMAX, in which case the constraint model of Figure 17.10 no longer applies and the system moves to a different operational state. The qualitative state reached in case 1 (and also case 2 with a minor change) is, Table 17.6 A steady qualitative state at time t, Variable name qmag qdir Quantity space Target value amia (0, AMAX) std (0, AMAX, ) amB (0. BMAX) std (0, BMAX, ) total (0, ) std 0.) pressured 0, ) std ,) pAB 0 std ( , 0, ) flowsB 0 std 0, ) Such a steady state could be used to define new landmark values for the different variables, giving us the following refined description, Table 17.7 New landmark values defined at time t, Variable name gmag air Quantity space Target value amt ASTD std (0, ASTD, AMAX, ) amB BSID std (0, BSTD, BMAX, ) total TSTD std (0, TSTD, ) pressured PASTD std (0, PASTD, ) pressure PBSID std (0, PBSTD, ) pAB 0 std ( , 0, 2) flowAB 0 std (,0, ) - A new set of correspondences is also formed as a result of these landmarks. For, amtA ASTD and pressureA PASTD forms the correspondence (ASTD, PASTD). The others are left as an exercise for the reader. The above example illustrates the kind of predictions that qualitative reasoning allows us to make in the face of uncertain information. Given that we do not know the capacities of the two tanks, the best we can say is that one of the three cases will happen. A steady state could be reached with either the tank B partially full, or filled to the brim, or the system could move to a different operational qualitative state in which tank B overflows, and the total fluid between the two tanks reduces in amount. And only one of these behaviours can be demonstrated by the system. The actual one that happens can only be determined with the knowledge of the capacities of the two tanks. Qualitative reasoning is thus a powerful tool to reason about a system without resorting to numerical information. This is the kind of common sense reasoning that peopl