. . . . 1062
Bibliography 1063
Index 1095
1
INTRODUCTION
In which we try to explain why we consider artificial intelligence to be a subject
mostworthyofstudy,andinwhichwetrytodecidewhatexactlyitis,thisbeinga
goodthingtodecidebeforeembarking.
We call ourselves Homo sapiens man the wise because our intelligence is so important
INTELLIGENCE
tous. Forthousands ofyears, wehavetried tounderstand how wethink; that is, how amere
handful of matter can perceive, understand, predict, and manipulate a world far larger and
ARTIFICIAL more complicated than itself. The field of artificial intelligence, or AI, goes further still: it
INTELLIGENCE
attemptsnotjusttounderstand butalsotobuildintelligent entities.
AIisoneofthe newestfieldsinscience and engineering. Work started inearnest soon
after World War II, and the name itself was coined in 1956. Along with molecular biology,
AIisregularlycitedasthe field Iwouldmostliketobein byscientistsinotherdisciplines.
Astudentinphysicsmightreasonably feelthatallthegoodideashavealreadybeentakenby
Galileo, Newton, Einstein, and the rest. AI, on the other hand, still has openings forseveral
full-time Einsteinsand Edisons.
AIcurrentlyencompassesahugevarietyofsubfields,rangingfromthegeneral(learning
andperception)tothespecific,suchasplayingchess,provingmathematicaltheorems,writing
poetry, driving a car on a crowded street, and diagnosing diseases. AI is relevant to any
intellectual task;itistrulyauniversal field.
1.1 WHAT IS AI?
We have claimed that AI is exciting, but we have not said what it is. In Figure 1.1 we see
eight definitions of AI, laid out along twodimensions. The definitions on top are concerned
withthoughtprocessesandreasoning,whereastheonesonthebottomaddressbehavior. The
definitions on the left measure success in terms of fidelity to human performance, whereas
the ones on the right measure against an ideal performance measure, called rationality. A
RATIONALITY
systemisrationalifitdoesthe rightthing, givenwhatitknows.
Historically, al