 a stable expansions since both solated(aditi)and Isolated(shubhagata) are not entailed, as required by the stability criterion 2. 2. Blsolated(aditi) false, Blsolated(shubhagata) false The two implication formulas are, (Friend(aditi,shubhagata) falsea false D Chat(aditi,shubhagata)) (Friend(aditi,jennifer) falsea true Chat(aditi,jennifer)) true and the resulting knowledge base is KB, , Friend(aditi,shubhagata) Chat(aditi.shubhagata)) Friend(aditi, shubhgata), Friend(aditi, jennifer), Isolated(jennifer) This requires that solated(aditi) and Isolated(shubhagata) are not entailed in the KB, which is the case. Hence, this is a stable expansion. And this expansion entails Chat(aditi, shubhagata). 3. Blsolated(aditi) true, Blsolated(shubhagata) false The two implication formulas are, (Friend(aditi,shubhagata) -truea false Chat(aditi,shubhagata)) true (Friend(aditi jennifer) trueatrue D Chat(aditi jennifer)) true and the resulting knowledge base is KBs 3 Friend(aditi, shubhgata), Friend(aditi, Jennifer), lsolated(jennifer) This is not a stable expansion, since solated(aditi) is not entailed, as required by the stability criterion 2. 4. Blsolated(aditi) false, Blsolated(shubhagata) true The two implication formulas are, (Friend(aditi,shubhagata)A falsea tre Chat(aditi,shubhagata)) true (Friend(aditi,jennifer), falsea true Chat(aditi,jennifer)) true and the resulting knowledge base is KB, , Friend(aditi, shubhgata), Friend(aditi, jennifer), Isolated(jennifer) This is not a stable expansion since solated(shubhagata) is not entailed, as required by the stability criterion 2. There is a corresponding set of four expansions in which Blsolated(jennifer) false. However, all the four are not stable. Therefore, we can see that of the eight possible expansions, only one is stable and in that stable expansion we have the belief that Chat(aditi, shubhagata) is true. 17.2 Qualitative Reasoning Many scientific and engineering applications require us to model and reason about the real wo