would mean that we would be inclined to use the same colour name for them. Then at which point traversing from 1 to N would we say that the patch is not red? When one says the woman in the red shirt what does one mean? Does one talk of some truth functional semantics that says that the predicate red(shirt) is true based on some colour chart? Rohit Parikh has argued (Parikh, 1994; 2001) that one should work towards a utility based semantics. If were to describe to you a person as the one wearing the red shirt, and if you are able to identify her (correctly), then my description of her wearing a red shirt is useful even if she is wearing what a purist mighty call a maroon shirt. This could happen for instance if the rest of the people in the group were all wearing differently shades of blue. Utility thus plays an important role in what we say being in the context of some intention or purpose. The colours of lights on a traffic signal are typically red, amber and green. This is a utilitarian choice because the possibility of giving confusing signals is minimized. Ignore the placement of the three lights, or assume that you are speeding from far trying to decide whether you can cross the signal or not in time, and all you can notice is the colour of the light. Imagine what would happen if the red, amber and green were replaced by forest green, lime green and pigment green. Obviously there would be many more accidents. In fact there is utility even in choosing red for stopping, instead of green, because red light is of a longer wavelength and can be more clearly seen from far 8. 13.5 Event Calculus An intelligent agent needs to reason about actions and their consequences in a changing world. The world itself is described in terms of relations between objects expr es chuiscFOL predicates. In a dynamic world however the value of the predicate can change over time. We call such predicates fluents irhut.com If we want to reason about the effects of actions on the world i we 