 is used to identify the dataset from where the answers are to be retrieved, and clauses like ORDER BY and DISTINCT can be used to control the manner in which the results are presented. Observe that the results will be in a machine readable XML document. The PREFIX keyword allows us to define prefix labels for Ris (Internationalized Resource Identifiers). An RI extends the way URIs are defined. Wezinistkate SPARQL query with the following example. The query is to retrieve all names of ghaza albums and their artists in Keel ds PREFIX statement says that the properties names prefixed by composition: are defined in the corresponding namespace. The SELECT DISTINCT clause says that we want distinct values for the variables ?7name and ? album. Variables names in query patterns are prefixed with ? . PREFIX composition: http: www.muzicsite.zzz composition SELECT DISTINCT ?name ?album FROM http: www.muzicsite.zzz title WHERE ?title composition:artist ?name ?title composition:musicalForm Ghazal ?title composition:album ?album ?title composition:year 2012 ORDER BY ?name The graph patterns are defined in the WHERE clause. The first pattern extracts the name of the artist for the resource and binds it to the variable ?name. The second one imposes a constraint that the musical form must be Ghazal . The third one extracts the name of the album in the variable ? album, and the fourth one restricts the year to the value 2012. The ORDER clause says that the output, which is the name of the artist and the album, should be sorted on the ?name variable. Ma senenee 2011 OO FIGURE 13.5 The Linking Open Data cloud in 2011 (Cyganiak and Jentzsch, 2011 --- pave aegis t brainz Audio- Flickr Weo.org pes Scrobbler Qo0s Py exporter skazirliye. gom Conference IRIT Corpus y Toulouse he Bac a h Jonn aia FOAF 4.4 sioc acm e xP Peel profiles Sites a Guides 7 f DBLP 4 2 RKB i Project flick Geo- cates wrapor ) P Explore names Pisa 4 anne PSS Lvl Open y Calais World Linked 4 bd Magna- Foct- MDB Seun ES 