 over a time interval. 26 The Executive though, as expected, treats them differently. Actions are what it needs to activate in the agent and states are observations it gets. 27 Thanks to . Murugeswari for the example where a plan is found after the fixed point. 28 First demonstrated to me many years ago by Vinay Desai, a fellow student and a bridge player at IIT Bombay. 24 Knowledge Based Reasoning Chapter 11 The goal of artificial intelligence is building systems that will come up with a good answer for any question from its domain of competence. Al systems are different from specific application programs in the scope of questions they can address. A program to multiply two matrices can only answer the question: What is the product of these two matrices? , and that too only if the input is presented to it in a carefully tailored form. It does have knowledge about multiplying matrices, but that knowledge is embedded in the algorithm. The knowledge for problem solving is encoded in a procedural form. It does not know what matrices are.1 The traditional approach to software development is to implement more and more such programs for each task that is to be done. Each such program encapsulates a connection between its input and its output. Each is confined to that particular connection. This relation between input and output may be complex, allowing many choices to the user. Consider, for example, a spreadsheet, a word processor, or a media player. Each of these programs may give a multitude of fixed options to a user. A spreadsheet, for example, allows a user to arrange a lot of data into grids and define functional relationships between them. Word processing software allows the user to organize and format words and pictures, taking upon itself a lot of mundane chores like alignment, styles, and spelling checks. A media player may enable a user to create, organize and access movies and music in various formats. In each of these cases, the connection between input and 