eads and using fast constraint propagation algorithms in EXEC to exploit plan flexibility Choosing a high level of abstraction for planned activities, so as to delegate as many detailed activity decisions as possible to the procedural executive Handling execution failures using a combination of robust procedures and deductive repair planning We next describe some of the features of an autonomous planning system in the context of a deep-sea autonomous vehicle. 10.7.2 T-REX In January 2004, NASA landed two rovers on the surface of Mars whose operations were controlled by a system called MAPGEN (Mixed-initiative Activity Planning and GENeration) which had the same basic approach of adaptive execution of the RA (Bresina et al., 2005; 2005a). The Mars Exploration Rovers (MERs) were not completely autonomous since they had humans in the loops inspecting and authorizing the plans generated in a mixed initiative manner (Burstein and McDermott, 1996). But like the system for autonomous submarines described here, MAPGEN was based on a system called EUROPA (described later). The advances in autonomous planning and execution have opened up new vistas in oceanography research. Whereas earlier data from the oceans had to be painstakingly collected by ships zigzagging the ocean surfaces, now such data can be collected by Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (UAV) diving deep into the oceans collecting data, surfacing occasionally to report to their owners. We look at the system called T-REX (Teleo-Reactive Executive) which is a successor of the RA system we saw above (McGann et al., 2008), (Py et al., 2010). Controlling a UAV requires the system to follow the sense-deliberate-act cycle of an autonomous agent. In order to scale the operations up, the planning system partitions its scope both functionally and temporally. This implies planning separately for different subsystems and also separating deliberation and action at different time scales. The system is partitioned along the follow