an be done either by establishing
a convention that orders the solutions before the game begins or by negotiating to reach a
mutually beneficial solution during the game (which would mean including communicative
actions aspartofasequential game). Communication thus arises ingametheory forexactly
thesamereasonsthatitaroseinmultiagentplanningin Section11.4. Gamesinwhichplayers
COORDINATION needtocommunicatelikethisarecalled coordination games.
GAME
A game can have more than one Nash equilibrium; how do we know that every game
must have at least one? Some games have no pure-strategy Nash equilibria. Consider, for
example, any pure-strategy profile for two-finger Morra (page 666). If the total number of
fingersiseven,then Owillwanttoswitch;ontheotherhand(sotospeak),ifthetotalisodd,
then E willwanttoswitch. Therefore, nopurestrategy profilecanbeanequilibrium andwe
mustlooktomixedstrategies instead.
Butwhichmixed strategy? In 1928, von Neumann developed amethod forfinding the
optimal mixed strategy for two-player, zero-sum games games in which the sum of the
ZERO-SUMGAME
payoffsisalwayszero.6 Clearly,Morraissuchagame. Fortwo-player, zero-sum games,we
know that the payoffs are equal and opposite, so we need consider the payoffs of only one
player, whowillbethemaximizer(justasin Chapter5). For Morra,wepicktheevenplayer
Etobethemaximizer,sowecandefinethepayoffmatrixbythevalues U (e,o) thepayoff
E
to E if E doeseand O doeso. (Forconvenience wecallplayer E her and O him. ) Von
Neumann smethodiscalledthethemaximintechnique, anditworksasfollows:
MAXIMIN Suppose we change the rules as follows: first E picks her strategy and reveals it to
O. Then O picks his strategy, with knowledge of E s strategy. Finally, we evaluate
the expected payoff of the game based on the chosen strategies. This gives us a turn-
taking game to which we can apply the standard minimax algorithm from Chapter 5.
Let s suppose this gives an outcome U . Clearly, this game favors O, so the true
E,O
utility U of 