t belief status is a binary function. An assertion must eventually be either believed or not. Sometimes, this is too strong an assumption. In the next chapter, we present techniques for dealing with uncertainty without making that assumption. Instead, we allow for varying degrees of belief. EXERCISES !. Try to formulate the ABC Murder story in preduate logic and see how far you can get. The classic example of nonmonotonic reasoning involves birds and flying. In particular, consider the following facts: Most things do not fly. Most birds do fly, unless they are too young or dead or have a broken wing. Penguins and ostriches do not fly. Magical ostriches fly. tw 10. I. Symbolic Reasoning Under Uncertainty 171 sa e A e R e Re NS GEE A AR Tweety is a bird. Chirpy is either a penguin or an ostrich. e Feathers is a magical ostrich. Use one or more of the nonmonotonic reasoning systems we have discussed to answer the following questions: Does Tweety fly? Does Chirpy fly? Does Feathers fly? * Does Paul fly? Consider the missionaries and cannibals problem of Section 2.6. When you solved that problem, you used the CWA several times (probably without thinking about it). List some of the ways in which you used it. A big technical problem that arises in defining circumscription precisely is the definition of a minimal model. Consider again the problem of Dick, the Quaker and Republican, which we can rewrite using a slightly different kind of AB predicate as: Vx: Republican(x) \ AAB1(x) > -Pacifist(x) Vx: Quaker(x) \ ~AB2() > Pacifist(x) Republican(x) Quaker(x) (a) Write down the smallest models you can that describe the two extensions that we computed for that knowledge base. (b) Does it make sense to say that either is smaller than the other? (c) Prioritized circumscription [Mc Carthy, 1986] attempts to solve this problem by ranking predicates by the order in which they should be minimized. How could you use this idea to indicate a preference as to which extension to prefer? Co