er.html 16 http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Common Era: The Common Era (CE), sometimes known as the Current Era or as the Christian Era, is the period of measured time beginning with the year 1 on the Gregorian calendar. The notations CE and BCE (Before the Common Era or Before the Christian Era) are alternative notations for AD (Anno Domini, Latin for in the year of the Lord ) and Bc (Before Christ), respectively. The CE BCE system of notation is completely chronologically equivalent with dates in the AD BC system, i.e. no change in numbering is used and neither includes a year zero. The abbreviations may also be written CE and BCE. 17 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Neurons 18 See Wikipedia for a set of illustrative patterns. http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Conway s Game of Life 9 We can extrapolate this concept to our own selves. The body we had as a baby was made up of an almost entirely different set of atoms and molecules as compared to our current body. Yet, we as selves, have existed continuously without being affected by this physical change. One recalls the anecdote about an axe belonging to Abraham Lincoln being kept in a museum in Illinois. Docents at the museum will, with scrupulous honesty, explain that over its life, the axe has had five new handles and two new heads changed. 20 A similar view on the human brain is emerging nowadays. Hoffmeyer (1994) talks of a floating brain , functionally integrated into the body. Other people have observed the ability of our body parts to remember, for example our fingers to remember to type a password correctly, even when we cannot mentally recall it. 21 In fact, this is the basis of the market economy. 22 Evolutionary psychologists believe that our notions of beauty and sexual attractiveness are rooted in the judgment of survivability of the offspring. Thus, people tend to be attracted to potential mates who will have healthy offspring. Finding Optimal Paths Chapter 5 Heuristic functions exploit domain knowledge to orient