 acquire the clinical data it needs. MYCIN is an example of an expert system, since it performs a task normally done by a human expert. Here we concentrate on the use of probabilistic reasoning; Chapter 20 provides a broader view of expert systems. MYCIN represents most of its diagnostic knowledge as a set of rules. Each mule has associated with it a certainty factor, which is a measure of the extent to which the evidence that is described by the antecedent of the rule supports the conclusion that is given in the rule s consequent. A typical MYCIN mule looks like: If: (1) the stain of the organism is gram-positive, and (2) the morphology of the organism is coccus, and (3) the growth conformation of the organism is clumps, then there is suggestive evidence (0.7) that the identity of the organism is staphylococcus. This is the form in which the rules are stated to the user. They are actually represented internally in an easyto-manipulate LISP list structure. The mile we just saw would be represented internally as PREMISE: (SAND (SAME CNTXT GRAM GRAMPOS) {SAME CNTXT MORPH COCCUS} (SAME CNTXT CONFORM CLUMPS) )} ACTION: {CONCLUDE CNTXT IDENT STAPHYLOCOCCUS TALLY 0.7) Statistical Reasaning 175 <M CONCEETE RN EDN ORR IRENE SEE ERATE, MYCIN uses these rules to reason backward to the clinical data available from its goal of finding significant disease-causing organisms. Once it finds the identities of such organisms, it then attempts to select a therapy by which the disease (s) may be treated. In order to understand how MYCIN exploits uncertain information, we need answers to two questions: What do certainty factors mean? and How does MYCIN combine the estimates of certainty in each of its rules to produce a final estimate of the certainty of its conclusions? A further question that we need to answer, given our observations about the intractability of pure Bayesian reasoning, is, What compromises does the MYCIN technique make and what risks are associated with those compromi