 by Richards and Amir, Inference Player, was developed on top of a freely available open-source program? called Quackle (KatzBrown and O Laughlin, 2006). Richards program makes inferences about the tiles left on the opponent's rack after their move. It infers that any letters that could have been used for high scoring words are not on the rack, because otherwise they could have been used. A similar inference, known as the principle of restricted choice, is made by bridge players about cards not played by an opponent. We look at some of the techniques for implementing Scrabble as described by Sheppard (2002). The Dictionary and Move Generation In principle, the dictionary is a list of words. But searching a list of 95,000 words for legal words during each move is no mean task. One way to address this problem is to organise the words in a trie data structure. At every node, the children branch on the different possible letters to extend a partial word. For the English language, the root node will have 26 children, one each for words starting with the 26 letters of English. Nodes lower down in the tree structure would have fewer nodes. The node after the letter Q , for example, will have only one branch for the letter U , since in every word the letter is followed by the letter U . If one combines the common suffixes of different words then the resulting network is a discrimination network known as Directed Acyclic Word Graph (DAWG), and is a compact searchable structure containing the words in the dictionary (Aho et al., 1974). Figure 8.40 shows an example DAWG for a small collection of words. Move generation for the game involves the following. The player must either identify whole words that can be placed on the board in such a way that it is connected to the existing words, or must identify a part of a word from her letters, such that the remaining letters are in place on the board already. In both cases, one must ensure that the move does not result in any sequenc