images in one's thoughts, as spoken or written words in some language, as graphical or other pictures, and as character strings or collections of magnetic spots stored in a computer (Figure 2 2). The representations we shall be concerned with in our study of Al are the written ones (character strings, graphs, pictures) and the corresponding data structures used for their internal storage. Any choice of representation will depend on the type of problem to be solved and the inference methods available. For example, suppose we wish to write a program to play a simple card game using the standard deck of 52 playing cards. We will need some way to represent the cards dealt to each player and a way to express the rules. We can represent cards in different ways. The most straightforward way is to record the Suit (clubs, diamonds, hearts, spades) and face values (ace. 2. 3......10. jack, queen, king) as a symbolic pair. So the queen of hearts might Mental Images Written text Character Strings Binary numbers Figure 2.2 Dii'i'crent lesels iii Magnetic spots knowledge representation, Sec 2.4 Representati On of Knowledge 15 be represented as <queen, hearts>. Alternatively, we could assign abbreviated codes (c6 for the 6 of clubs), numeric values which ignore Suit (I, 2.....13), or some other scheme. If the game we wish to play is bridge, suit as well as value will be important. On the other hand, if the game is black jack, only face values are important and a simpler program will result if only numeric values are used. To see how important a good representation is, one only needs to try solving a few simple problems using different representations Consider the problem of discovering a pattern in the sequence of numbers I I 2 3 4 7. A change of base in the number from IC to 2 transforms the number to 011011011011011011. Clearly a representation in the proper base greatly simplifies finding the pattern solution. Sometimes, a state diagram representation will simplify solutions. F