tual values are often subjective probability estimates provided by a physician. We have for the definitions if P(H) = I MB(H,E)= p max IP(HIE),PJ1)I - P(H) otherwise (6.11) ma4I,OJ - P(H) if P(H)=0 MD(H,E) = M11 min IPHIE,PHJ - otherwise (6.12) min[ 1,01 - P(H) Note that when 0 < P(H) <I, and E and H are independent (so P(HIE) = P(M), then MB = MB = 0. This would be the case if E provided no useful information. The two measures MB and MD are combined into a single measure called the certainty factor (CF), defined by CF(H.E)=MB(H,E) MD(H,) (6.13) Note that the value of CF ranges from - I (certain disbelief) to + I (certain belief). Furthermore, a value of CF 0 will result if E neitherconfirms nor unconfirms H (E and H are independent). In MYCIN, each rule hypothesis H, has an associated MR and MD initially set to zero. As evidence is accumulated, they are updated using intermediate combining functions, and, when all applicable rules have been executed, a final CF is calculated for each H,. These are then compared and the largest cumulative confirmations or disconfirmations are used to determine the appropriate therapy. A threshold value of ICFI > 0.2 is used to prevent the acceptance of a weakly supported hypothesis. In the initial assignment of belief values an expert will consider all available confirming and disconfirming evidence, E,, . . . , Ek, and assign appropriate, consistent values to both. For example, in the assignment process, a value of I should be made if and only if a piece of evidence logically implies H (11) with certainty. Additional rules related to the assignment process must also be carefully followed when using such methods. Ad hoc methods have been used in a large number of knowledge-based systems. more so than have the more formal methods. This is largely because of the difficulties encountered in acquiring large numbers of reliable probabilities related to the given domain and to the complexities of the ensuing calculations. But, in bypassin