nferred that Joe needed groceries, shopped for items, paid the cashier, checked out, and left the market with groceries but with less money than when he entered. Scripts have now been used in a number bf language understanding systems (English aswell as other languages) at Yale University by Schank and his colleagues. One such system is SAM (Script Applier Mechanism) which reads and reasons with text to demonstrate an "understanding" of stories (such as car accident stories from newspapers) that were script based. Other programs developed at Yale include PAM. POLITICS, FRUMP, IPP, BORIS. BABEL, and CIRUS. All of these programs deal with reading, planning, explaining, or in some way understanding stories. They all used some form of script representation scheme. 7.5 SUMMARY In this chapter we have investigated different types of structured knowledge representation methods We first considered, associative networks, a representation based on a structure of linked nodes (concepts) and arcs (relations) connecting the nodes. With these networks we saw how related concepts could he structured into cohesive units and exhibited as a graphical representation. Next, we looked at conceptual graphs, a structured formalism based on traditional logics and which uses primitive building blocks for concepts and relationships between the concepts. How conceptual graphs and formulas in FOPL could be mapped from one to the other and how inferring with conceptual graphs compared to logical inference were demonstrated. We then considered' frame structures as general methods of representing units of knowledge. Frames are composed of any number of slots, each with any number of facets, and they in turn, contain any number of values. The contents of a slot may be attributes which characterize the frame entity, pointers to related frames, Chap. 7 Ex.,clses 145 procedures; or even other subframes. Inference with frames is accomplished through property inheritance, default values, embedded proce