s,complexityisexpressedintermsofthreequantities: b,thebranching
factor or maximum number of successors of any node; d, the depth of the shallowest goal
BRANCHINGFACTOR
node(i.e.,thenumberofstepsalong thepathfromtheroot); andm,themaximumlength of
DEPTH
anypathinthestatespace. Timeisoftenmeasuredintermsofthenumberofnodesgenerated
during the search, and space in terms of the maximum number of nodes stored in memory.
For the most part, we describe time and space complexity for search on a tree; for a graph,
theanswerdepends onhow redundant thepathsinthestatespaceare.
Toassesstheeffectivenessofasearchalgorithm,wecanconsiderjustthesearchcost SEARCHCOST
which typically depends on the time complexity but can also include a term for memory
usage orwecanusethetotalcost,whichcombinesthesearchcostandthepathcostofthe
TOTALCOST
solution found. For the problem of finding a route from Arad to Bucharest, the search cost
isthe amount of timetaken bythe search and thesolution cost isthe total length of thepath
Section3.4. Uninformed Search Strategies 81
in kilometers. Thus, to compute the total cost, we have to add milliseconds and kilometers.
Thereisno officialexchangerate betweenthetwo,butitmightbereasonableinthiscaseto
convertkilometersintomillisecondsbyusinganestimateofthecar saveragespeed(because
time is what the agent cares about). This enables the agent to find an optimal tradeoff point
at which further computation to find a shorter path becomes counterproductive. The more
generalproblem oftradeoffs betweendifferentgoodsistakenupin Chapter16.
3.4 UNINFORMED SEARCH STRATEGIES
This section covers several search strategies that come under the heading of uninformed
UNINFORMED search (also called blind search). The term means that the strategies have no additional
SEARCH
information about states beyond that provided in the problem definition. All they can do is
BLINDSEARCH
generate successors and distinguish a goal state from a non-goal state. All search strategies
are distinguished