ate. There is a way around this using completion formulas which we discuss in the next section. Even so, CWA is essentially the formalism under which Prolog operates and Prolog has been shown to be effective in numerous applications. 5.4 PREDICATE COMPLETION AND CIRCUMSCWPTION Limiting default assumptions to only portions of a KB can be achieved through the use of completion or circumscription formulas. 'Jnhike CWA, these formulas apply only to specified predicates, and not globally 1.o the whole KB. Completion Formulas Completion formulas are axioms whic)' are added to a KB to restrict the applicability of specific predicates. If it is know', that only certain objects should satisfy given predicates, formulas which make this knowledge explicit (complete) are added to the KB. This technique also re4uires the addition of the unique-names assumption (UNA); that is, formula wh'ch state that distinguished named entities in the KB are unique (different). As an example of predicate completion, suppose we have the .following KB: OWNS(joe,tord) STUDENT(Io O) OWNS(ji II,chevy) STUDENT(jil I) OWNS(sam.bike) PROGRAMMER(sam) STUDENT(mary) If it i F, known that Joe is the only person who owns a Ford, this fact can be made explicit with the following completion formula: Yx OWNS(x.ford) -. EOUAL(x.joe) (5.2) In addition, we add the inequality formula EQUAUa,joe) (5.3) which has the meaning that this is true for all constants a which are different from Joe. Sec. 5.4 Predicate Completion and Circumscription 91 Likewise, if it is known that Mary also has a Ford, and only Mary and Joe have Fords, the completion and corresponding inequality formulas in this case would be Yx OWNStford,x . EQUAUx,joe V EOUAL(x.mary) t QUAL(a.joe) EOUAL(a,mary) Once completion formulas have been added to a KB, ordinary first order proof methods can be used to prove statements such as OWNS( ji11, ford). For example, to obtain a refutation proof using resolution, we put the completion and inequality formula