d finite-state grammar rules. For example, a
companynamemightberecognized bytherule
Capitalized Word ( Company Co Inc Ltd )
The third stage handles basic groups, meaning noun groups and verb groups. The idea is
to chunk these into units that will be managed by the later stages. We will see how to write
a complex description of noun and verb phrases in Chapter 23, but here we have simple
rules that only approximate the complexity of English, but have the advantage of being rep-
resentable by finite state automata. The example sentence would emerge from this stage as
thefollowingsequence oftaggedgroups:
1 NG: Bridgestone Sports Co. 10 NG: a local concern
2 VG: said 11 CJ: and
3 NG: Friday 12 NG: a Japanese trading house
4 NG: it 13 VG: to produce
5 VG: had set up 14 NG: golf clubs
6 NG: a joint venture 15 VG: to be shipped
7 PR: in 16 PR: to
8 NG: Taiwan 17 NG: Japan
9 PR: with
Here NGmeansnoungroup,VGisverbgroup, PRispreposition, and CJisconjunction.
876 Chapter 22. Natural Language Processing
The fourth stage combines the basic groups into complex phrases. Again, the aim
is to have rules that are finite-state and thus can be processed quickly, and that result in
unambiguous (or nearly unambiguous) output phrases. One type of combination rule deals
withdomain-specific events. Forexample,therule
Company Set Up Joint Venture( with Company )?
captures one way to describe the formation of a joint venture. This stage is the first one in
thecascadewheretheoutputisplacedintoadatabasetemplateaswellasbeingplacedinthe
output stream. The final stage merges structures that were built up in the previous step. If
thenextsentence says Thejointventurewillstartproduction in January, thenthisstepwill
notice that there are two references to a joint venture, and that they should be merged into
one. Thisisaninstance oftheidentityuncertaintyproblemdiscussed in Section14.6.3.
Ingeneral,finite-statetemplate-basedinformationextractionworkswellforarestricted
domaininwhichitispossible topredet