 significant factor and can be influenced by the players conduct; otherwise, they can be
treated asanaspect ofnature just liketheweather that is assumedtobeindifferent tothe
players intentions.6
Finally, some systems are a mixture of centralized and multiagent planning. For ex-
ample, a delivery company may do centralized, offline planning for the routes of its trucks
and planes each day, but leave some aspects open for autonomous decisions by drivers and
pilots who can respond individually to traffic and weather situations. Also, the goals of the
company and its employees are brought into alignment, to some extent, by the payment of
incentives(salariesandbonuses) a suresignthatthisisatruemultiagentsystem.
INCENTIVE
The issues involved in multiagent planning can be divided roughly into two sets. The
first, covered in Section 11.4.1, involves issues of representing and planning for multiple
simultaneous actions;theseissuesoccurinallsettingsfrommultieffectortomultiagentplan-
ning. The second, covered in Section 11.4.2, involves issues of cooperation, coordination,
andcompetition arisingintruemultiagentsettings.
11.4.1 Planning withmultiplesimultaneous actions
Forthe time being, wewill treat the multieffector, multibody, and multiagent settings in the
same way, labeling them generically as multiactor settings, using the generic term actor to
MULTIACTOR
cover effectors, bodies, and agents. The goal of this section is to work out how to define
ACTOR
transition models, correct plans, and efficient planning algorithms forthe multiactor setting.
Acorrectplanisonethat,ifexecutedbytheactors,achievesthegoal. (Inthetruemultiagent
setting, of course, the agents may not agree to execute any particular plan, but at least they
6 We apologize to residents of the United Kingdom, where the mere act of contemplating a game of tennis
guaranteesrain.
Section11.4. Multiagent Planning 427
Actors(A,B)
Init(At(A,Left Baseline) At(B,Right Net) Approaching(Ball,Right Baseline)) Partner(A,B) Pa