 emphasis on the OPSS programming language. EXERCISES 1, Consider the following knowledge base: Vx: Vy : cat(x) A fish(y) > likes toeat(x,y) Wx : calico(x) > cat(x) Vx 1 tuna(x) fish(x) tuna(Charlie) tuna(Herb) calico(Puss) (a) Convert these wff s into Hom clauses. (b) Convert the Horn clauses into a PROLOG program. (c) Write a PROLOG query corresponding to the question, What does Puss like to eat? and show how it will be answered by your program. (d) Write another PROLOG program that corresponds to the same set of wff s but returns a different answer to the same query. 2. A problem-solving search can proceed either forward (from a known start state to a desired goal state) or backward (from a goal state to a start state). What factors determine the choice of direction for a particular problem? 146 Artificial Intelligence 3. Ifa problem-solving search program were to be written to solve each of the following types of problems, determine whether the search should proceed forward or backward: (a) water jug problem (b) blocks world (c) natural language understanding 4. Program the interpreter for a production system. You will need to build a table that holds the rules and a matcher that compares the current state to the left sides of the mules. You will also need to provide an appropriate control strategy to select among competing rules. Use your interpreter as the basis of a program that solves water jug problems. CHAPTER 7 SYMBOLIC REASONING UNDER UNCERTAINTY There are many methods for predicting the future. For example, you can read horoscopes, tea leaves, tarot cards, or crystal balls. Collectively, these methods are Known as nutty methods. Or you can put wellresearched facts into sophisticated computer models, more commonly referred to as a complete waste of time. Scott Adams (1957-) Author Known for his comic strip Dilbert So far, we have described techniques for reasoning with a complete, consistent, and unchanging model of the world. Unfortunately, in many prob