the node wrongdoer is 0 Therefore Distance cs 2 0 2 Distance of the node fox from the root entity is 6 Distance of the node wrongdoer from the node entity is 4 Therefore Distanceroot 6 4 10 Similarity( fox , wrongdoer ) 100 -100 (2 10) 80 Cc entity I J Figure 16.5 A WordNet hierarchy. 16.2.4 Word Sense Disambiguation WordNet records the different senses in which a word can potentially be used. Since each synset corresponds to a distinct meaning, each sense of a word maps to a distinct synset. Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) involves identifying the sense of a word in a given piece of text, by making use of other words in context and grammatical cues. State-of-theart WSD systems rely on Machine Learning techniques to establish the mapping. Supervised WSD systems rely on annotated corpora, in which each polysemous word is manually labelled with its correct sense. An example of one such freely available corpus is Semcor. A classifier such as a neural network or an instance based learner (refer Chapter 18) is trained on such a labelled corpus. The learner uses the training data to establish a mapping from the contextual features of a word, such as words in its proximity, to the correct sense of the word. A new word instance is viewed as a test case and assigned a sense based on the predictions of the trained model. A major bottleneck with supervised WSD systems is the reliance on hand-annotated corpora. Unsupervised WSD systems overcome this limitation. Each word instance is described in terms of its features, and an unsupervised clustering is performed which groups together the instances that have similar contextual features. Each group (or cluster) is treated as a distinct sense. A new word instance is assigned to its closest group based on its features. Note that, unlike the supervised case, we not have to rely on explicit sense labels from WordNet. Some authors make a terminological distinction to clarify this point, and use word sense discrimination as opposed to w