c-consistent. Forexample,considerthethirdrowof Figure6.7.
Itshowsthatwhen WAisred and Qisgreen,both NT and SAareforcedtobeblue. Forward
checking does notlook farenough ahead tonotice that thisis aninconsistency: NT and SA
areadjacentandsocannothavethesamevalue.
MAINTAININGARC The algorithm called MAC (for Maintaining Arc Consistency (MAC)) detects this
CONSISTENCY(MAC)
inconsistency. Afteravariable X
i
isassignedavalue,the INFERENCE procedurecalls AC-3,
but instead of a queue of all arcs in the CSP, we start with only the arcs (X ,X ) for all
j i
X thatareunassigned variables thatareneighbors of X . Fromthere, AC-3doesconstraint
j i
propagation intheusualway,andifanyvariablehasitsdomainreducedtotheemptyset,the
call to AC-3 fails and we know to backtrack immediately. We can see that MAC is strictly
morepowerfulthanforwardcheckingbecauseforwardcheckingdoesthesamethingas MAC
on the initial arcs in MAC s queue; but unlike MAC, forward checking does not recursively
propagate constraints whenchanges aremadetothedomainsofvariables.
6.3.3 Intelligentbacktracking: Looking backward
The BACKTRACKING-SEARCH algorithm in Figure6.5hasaverysimple policy forwhatto
do when a branch of the search fails: back up to the preceding variable and try a different
CHRONOLOGICAL value for it. This is called chronological backtracking because the most recent decision
BACKTRACKING
pointisrevisited. Inthissubsection, weconsiderbetterpossibilities.
Consider what happens when we apply simple backtracking in Figure 6.1 with a fixed
variable ordering Q, NSW, V, T, SA, WA, NT. Suppose we have generated the partial
assignment Q red,NSW green,V blue,T red . When we try the next variable,
SA, we see that every value violates a constraint. We back up to T and try a new color for
Section6.3. Backtracking Searchfor CS Ps 219
Tasmania! Obviouslythisissilly recoloring Tasmaniacannotpossiblyresolvetheproblem
with South Australia.
Amoreintelligent approach tobacktracking istobacktrack toavariable thatmightfix
