etworks make it possible to easily implement property inheritance and default reasoning as depicted in Figure 7.8. This is illustrated (ford (AKO (VALUE car)) (COLOR (VALUE silver)) (MODEL (VALUE 4-door)) (GAS-MILEAGE (DEFAULT (get)) (RANGE (VALUE if-needed)) (WEIGHT (VALUE 2600)) (FUEL-CAPACITY (VALUE 18)1 Figure 7.8 A Ford frame with various slot types. 138 Structured Knowledge: Graphs, Frames. and Related Structures Chap. 7 Transport Origin:_ ZN Destination: Public Pflt.t I conveyance convsyarce VReserviatio Zn: - VPlian ro Zute: Pack: Pack: Air Land Sea Air Land Sea transport transport transport Airport Tickets: - Port Limo: i\ 13'A:- / Bus Train Limo FIgure 7.9 Network of frames for transportation methods. in the network of frames which represents various forms of transportation for people (Figure 7.9). Frame-Based Representation Languages Frame representations have become popular enough that special high level framebased representation languages have been developed. Most of these languages use LISP as the host language. They typically have functions to create, access, modify, update, and display frames. For example, a function which defines a frame might be called with (fdefine f-name <parents><slots>) where fdefine is a frame definition function, f-name is the name assigned to the new frame, <parents> is a list of all parent frames to which the new frame is linked, and <slots> is a list of slot names and initial values. Using the function fdefine to create a train frame we might provide the following details. (fdefine general-train land-transport (type (VALUE passenger)) (class (VALUE first-class second-class sleeper)) (food (restaurant (VALUE hot-meals)) (fast-food (VALUE cold-snacks)) Sec. 73 Frame Structures 139 A few other functions typically provided in a frame language include (fget i-name slot-name facet-name) ;returns data from ;specified location (fslots f-name) ;returns names of ;slots (ifacets f-name slot-name) ;returns names of ;facets (fput f-nam