ers on a team} * manager : Brooklyn-Dodgers instance : ML-Basebail-Team isa: ML-Baseball-Player team-size : 24 Manager : : Leo-Durocher * uniform-color : Blue Pee-Wee-Rleese instance Brooklyn-Dodgers instance : Fielder uniform-color : Biue batting-average: 309 Fig. 9.6 Representing the Class of All Teams as a Metaclass 196 Artificial Intelligence ROA LEE SNE OTE ARE EE OIE I ERIN ER SITET OTE IE ML-Baseball-Team Team ) Class (set of sets) ML-Baseball-Player Brooklyn-Dodgers Pee-Wee-Reese ; Fig. 9.7 Classes and Metaclasses Team represents a subset of the set of all sets, namely those whose elements are sets of players on a team. {t inherits the property of having a cardinality from Class. Team introduces the attribute team-size, which all its elements possess. Notice that team-size is like cardinality in that it measures the size of a set. But it applies to something different; cardinality applies to sets of sets and is inherited by all elements of Class. The slot team-size applies to the elements of those sets that happen to be teams. Those elements are sets of individuals. ML-Baseball-Team is also an instance of Class, since itis a set. It inherits the property of having a cardinality from the set of which it is an instance, namely Class. But it is a subset of Team. All of its instances will have the property of having a team-size since they are also instances of the superclass Team. We have added at this level the additional fact that the default team size is 24, so all instances of ML-Baseball-Team wiil inherit that as well. In addition, we have added the inheritable slot manager. Brooklyn-Dodgers is an instance of a ML-Basebail-Team. It is not an instance of Class because its elements are individuals, not sets. Brooklyn-Dodgers is a subclass of ML-Baseball-Player since ail of its elements are also elements of that set. Since it is an instance of a ML-Baseball-Team, it inherits the properties team-size and manager, as well as their default values. It specifies a 