 the path to the goal becomes cheapest, and is examined by A which terminates with a path to the goal. L4: A finds the least cost path to the goal. Proof (by contradiction) Assumption A4: Let A terminate with node G' with cost 9(G ) f (S). At the last step when A was about to expand G , there must exist (L2) a node n'such that f (n ) f (S). Therefore, f(n') f (G'), and A would have picked n ' instead of G . Thus, assumption A4 is wrong, and A could not have terminated with any node with a suboptimal cost. Therefore, A terminates by finding the optimal cost path. L5: For every node n expanded by A , f(n) s f (S) Proof A picked node n in preference to node n . Therefore, SO) SFM) SIMS) (5.4) L6: A more informed heuristic leads to more focussed search. Let A, and Az be two admissible versions of A using heuristic functions h, and hz respectively, and let ho(n) hy(n) for all n. We say ho is more informed than h,, because it is closer to the h value. Since both versions are admissible, both heuristic functions have h (n) as the upper bound. Then any node expanded by Ap is also expanded by Aj. That is, the version with the more informed heuristic function is more focused on the goal, and will never generate more nodes than the less informed one. Proof (by induction) We show that any node expanded by Ap is also expanded by A,. The property P that we need to prove for all nodes n is, expands(n, Az) expands(n, A,) which should be read as if Ap expands node n then A, expands node n . Basis: expands(S, Az) expands(S, A) since both start with S. Hypothesis: Let P be true for all nodes up to depth k from S. Proof step: (to show that property P is true for nodes at depth k 1). We do the proof step by contradiction. Assumption: Let there exist a node L at depth k 1 that is expanded by Az, and such that A, terminates without expanding node L. Since Az has picked node L, AL) f (S) from (5.4) That is 8y(L) hy(L) f (S). or ho(L) Sf (S) - 8(L) (5.5) Now, since A, terminates without pic