r level ancester nodes. For example, from the network of Figure 7.4. it is possible to infer that a mouse has hair and drinks milk. Property inheritance of this type is recognized as a form of default reasoning. The assumption is made that unless there is information to the contrary, it is reasonable for an entity to inherit characteristics from its ancestor nodes. As the name suggests, this type of inheritance is called default inheritance. When an object does not or cannot inherit certain properties, it would be assigned values of its own which override any inherited ones. Data structures patterned after associative networks also permit the efficient storage of information since it is only necessary to explicitly store objects and shared properties once. Shared properties are attached only to the highest node in a structure to which they apply. For example, in LISP. Bob's associations (Figure 7.3) can be implemented with property lists where all of Bob's properties are linked to one atom. lputprop 'bob 'cs-dept 'member-of) )putprop 'bob 'professor 'isa) (putpr p 'bob 'sandy 'married-to) (putprop 'bob 'house 'Owns) 1(putprop 'bob 'buick 'drives) The semantics of associative networks are sometimes defined along the same lines as that of traditiokal logics. In fact, some network system definitions provide a meaus of mapping to and from FL or FOPL expressions, For these systems, the semantics are based on interpretations. Thus, an interpretation satisfies a portion of a network if and only if all arc relations hold in the given portion. Inference procedures for networks can also parallel those of FL and FOPL. If a class A of objects has some property P. and a is a member of A, we infer that a has property P. Syntactic inference in networks can also be defined using parallels to traditional logics such as unification, chaining, modus ponens, and even resolution. r Od. IS A nouss Figure 7.4 Property inheritance in a heirarchicat networi L 132 Structured Knowledge: Graph