ctory,asillustrated
in Figure5.8(a). Mathematically, thiskindofevaluation functioniscalledaweightedlinear
WEIGHTEDLINEAR functionbecauseitcanbeexpressed as
FUNCTION
(cid:12)n
EVAL(s) w
1
f
1
(s) w
2
f
2
(s) w
n
f
n
(s) w
i
f
i
(s),
i 1
whereeach w isaweight andeach f isafeature oftheposition. Forchess, the f could be
i i i
thenumbers ofeach kind ofpiece ontheboard, andthe w could bethevalues ofthe pieces
i
(1forpawn,3forbishop, etc.).
Adding up the values of features seems like a reasonable thing to do, but in fact it
involves a strong assumption: that the contribution of each feature is independent of the
values of the other features. Forexample, assigning the value 3 to a bishop ignores the fact
that bishops are more powerful in the endgame, when they have a lot of space to maneuver.
Section5.4. Imperfect Real-Time Decisions 173
(a) White to move (b) White to move
Figure5.8 Twochesspositionsthatdifferonlyinthepositionoftherookatlowerright.
In(a), Black has an advantageofa knightand two pawns, whichshouldbe enoughto win
thegame. In(b),Whitewillcapturethequeen,givingitanadvantagethatshouldbestrong
enoughtowin.
Forthisreason,currentprogramsforchessandothergamesalsousenonlinearcombinations
offeatures. Forexample,apairofbishopsmightbeworthslightlymorethantwicethevalue
ofasinglebishop,andabishopisworthmoreintheendgame(thatis,whenthemovenumber
featureishighorthe numberofremainingpiecesfeatureislow).
Theastutereaderwillhavenoticedthatthefeaturesandweightsarenotpartoftherules
ofchess! Theycomefromcenturiesofhumanchess-playingexperience. Ingameswherethis
kind of experience is not available, the weights of the evaluation function can be estimated
by the machine learning techniques of Chapter 18. Reassuringly, applying these techniques
tochesshasconfirmedthatabishopisindeedworthaboutthreepawns.
5.4.2 Cutting offsearch
The next step is to modify ALPHA-BETA-SEARCH so that it will call the heuristic EVAL
function when it is appropriate to cut off the search. We replace the two l