r hand,
all such changes have to be reflected by changes to the action-utility table. Essentially, the
action-utility formulation isacompiledversionoftheoriginal formulation.
16.5.2 Evaluating decisionnetworks
Actionsareselected byevaluating thedecision networkfor eachpossible settingofthedeci-
sionnode. Oncethedecision nodeisset, itbehaves exactly likeachance nodethathasbeen
setasanevidencevariable. Thealgorithm forevaluating decisionnetworks isthefollowing:
1. Settheevidence variablesforthecurrentstate.
2. Foreachpossible valueofthedecision node:
(a) Setthedecision nodetothatvalue.
(b) Calculate theposterior probabilities fortheparent nodes oftheutility node, using
astandard probabilistic inference algorithm.
(c) Calculatetheresulting utilityfortheaction.
3. Returntheactionwiththehighestutility.
This is a straightforward extension of the Bayesian network algorithm and can be incorpo-
rated directly into the agent design given in Figure 13.1 on page 484. We will see in Chap-
ter 17 that the possibility of executing several actions in sequence makes the problem much
moreinteresting.
16.6 THE VALUE OF INFORMATION
Inthepreceding analysis, wehaveassumedthatallrelevant information, oratleastallavail-
able information, is provided to the agent before it makes its decision. In practice, this is
Section16.6. The Valueof Information 629
hardly ever the case. One of the most important parts of decision making is knowing what
questions to ask. Forexample, a doctor cannot expect to be provided with the results of all
possiblediagnostictestsandquestionsatthetimeapatientfirstenterstheconsultingroom.10
Testsare often expensive and sometimes hazardous (both directly and because ofassociated
delays). Their importance depends on two factors: whether the test results would lead to a
significantly bettertreatmentplan,andhowlikelythevarioustestresultsare.
INFORMATIONVALUE This section describes information value theory, which enables an agent to choose
THEORY
what information to acquir