n about,
say, each individual coin and bill in the world. Actions can generate and consume
resources, anditisusually cheapandeffective tocheck partialplans forsatisfaction of
resourceconstraints beforeattemptingfurtherrefinements. Timeisoneofthemostimportant resources. Itcanbehandled byspecialized schedul-
ingalgorithms, orscheduling canbeintegrated withplanning.
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 431 Hierarchical task network (HTN) planning allows the agent to take advice from the
domain designer inthe form of high-level actions (HL As)that can beimplemented in
variouswaysbylower-levelactionsequences. Theeffectsof HL Ascanbedefinedwith
angelic semantics, allowing provably correct high-level plans to be derived without
consideration of lower-level implementations. HTN methods can create the very large
plansrequired bymanyreal-worldapplications. Standard planning algorithms assume complete and correct information and determin-
istic,fullyobservable environments. Manydomainsviolatethisassumption. Contingent plans allow the agent to sense the world during execution to decide what
branchoftheplantofollow. Insomecases,sensorlessorconformantplanningcanbe
used to construct a plan that works without the need for perception. Both conformant
andcontingentplanscanbeconstructedbysearchinthespaceofbeliefstates. Efficient
representation orcomputation ofbeliefstatesisakeyproblem. An online planning agent uses execution monitoring and splices in repairs as needed
to recover from unexpected situations, which can be due to nondeterministic actions,
exogenous events,orincorrect modelsoftheenvironment. Multiagentplanning isnecessary whenthere areotheragents intheenvironment with
whichtocooperate orcompete. Jointplanscanbeconstructed, butmustbeaugmented
withsomeformofcoordinationiftwoagentsaretoagreeonwhichjointplantoexecute. This chapter extends classic planning to cover nondeterministic environments (where
outcomes of actions are uncertain), but it is not the last word on planning. 