, as discussed above. Thus, in each possible world, we can only select one dunk action, and having chosen one, we are then compelled to choose the corresponding induced action in the other world. We adopt the notation used by Smith and Weld in which A:w stands for action A in world w, and P:w stands for proposition P in world w. Let us say that we choose Dunk2 (p7, t):w1. This action results the goal proposition Diffused(bomb):w1. But it induces Dunk2-(p1, t):w2, which inhibits Dunk2 (p2, t):w2 being mutex with it. The No-op:w2 for Diffused(bomb):w2 results in the proposition Diffused(bomb):w2. The goal Diffused(bomb) appears only in one planning graph and the CPG will continue to extend the planning graphs till it reaches its termination criteria, which in this case is the two graphs levelling off. Clogged(t) Clogged(t) - . i Clogged(t) if 1 Diffused(bomb) . Wy In(bomb, p2) In(bomb, p2) In(bomb, pl) In(bomb, pl) Diffused(bomb) Diffused(bomb) Clogged(t) Clogged(t) - Clogged(t) ; i Diffused(bomb) by ain(Gomb pe) SF ee In(bomb, p2) wy q In(bomb, pl) In(bomb, pl) U , Diffused(bomb) Diffused(bomb) - FIGURE 10.13 An action in one planning graph can induce another action in another planning graph. For example Dunk2 (p1, t) in w1 induces Dunk2-(p7, t) in w2, and vice versa, shown here with thick boxes. The corresponding state of the bomb in the two worlds is indicated by the boxed propositions. In fact, the two actions Dunk2 (p1, t):w1 and Dunk2 (p2, t):w2 can be labelled mutex which will avoid the fruitless search that discovers that they cannot happen together. The notion of induced mutex is defined as follows. Induced Mutex If an action A:w necessarily induces an aspect A v, and if A :v is mutex with an action B:u then A:w is mutex with B:u. Note that the possible worlds u and v need not be distinct and the result also applies for B:v. It there were two toilets, t; and to, then the CPG would have found the solution of dunking each package in a different toilet. The read