on of the image. All digitized array values above some threshold level T are set equal to the maximum gray-level value (black), and values less than or equal to I are set equal to zero (white). For simplicity, assume gray-level values have been normalized to range between zero and one, and suppose a threshold level of T = 0.7 has been chosen. Then all array values to 1 and values g(x,y) 0.7 g(x,v) > 0.7 are set equal are set equal to 0. The result is an array of binary 0 and I values. An example of an image that has been thresholded at a binary image is illustrated in Figure 14.5. 0.7 to produce Thresholding is one way to segment the image into sharpen object regicns by enhancing some portions and reducing others like noise and other unwanted features. Thresholding can also help to simplify subsequent processing steps. And in many cases, the use of several different threshold levels may be necessary since low intensity object surfaces will be lost to high threshold levels, and unwanted background will be picked up and enhanced by low threshold levels. Thresholding at several levels may be the best way to determine different regions in the image when it is necessary to compensate for variations in illumination or poor Contrast. Selecting one or more appropriate threshold level settings 1', will require additional co mputations, such as first producing a histogram of the image gray-level intensities. A histogram gives the frequencies of occurrence of different intensity (or some other feature) levels within the image. An analysis of a histogram can reveal where concentrations of different intensity levels occur, where peaks and broad fiat levels occur and where abrupt differences in level occur. From this informa Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 292 Binary image (b) (a) Figure 14.5 Threshold transformation of an Image. best (:l),,ice of I values are often made apparent For example, a histogram tisn the rations between intensity levels that have a relatively with tw