f electrical signals over longer distances. The terminals of the axon branches have the synapses that connect to other neurons via their dendrites, or even on the soma, and transmit signals chemically across. Each neuron continuously receives signals through its dendrites in the form of spikes, and, from the information processing point of view, at some point based on some criterion, it sends a signal down its axon which is transmitted to other neurons. Figure 4.19 shows a schematic diagram of a neuron and illustrates a synaptic connection with the dendrite of another neuron. The central nervous system of a biological entity is the information processing infrastructure of the colony of cells, that is the body. There are different types of neurons carrying out different functions in the nervous system. Functionally, its neurons can be classified as being of three types. Afferent neurons or sensory neurons capture information from tissues and organs and convey it to the centre of the nervous system, or the brain. Efferent neurons or motor neurons carry signals from the central nervous system to the cells that control the muscles and other systems. Interneurons are those neurons that connect to each other in the central nervous system. These are the neurons we are interested in, because they make up what we call the brain. The behaviour of each individual neuron is relatively simple. It receives signals from multiple neurons via its dendrites and produces its own signal under certain conditions. One can model this functionality as shown in Figure 4.20, where its output y is some function of all the inputs x4, X,..., Xp, it receives. That is, VAS. Xp. Ny) (4.2) a x2 SS CG) fisysnstn) XN FIGURE 4.20 The neuron is a simple device that computes some function of all the inputs it receives from the other neurons. The simplest model of the neuron applies some function to the weighted average of all the inputs. The output y; of the 4 neuron is given by, Y PR W yp (4.3) where x