ations regularly in his forge. As a present from Zeus to Europa (a human princess), he created Talos out of bronze to guard and defend the island of Crete, where Europa lived. Perhaps his most famous creation is Pandora. He did so at the behest of Zeus who wanted to punish humankind for accepting Prometheus s gift of fire. Pandora is sent to Earth with a casket, which she has been forbidden to open, but does so, overcome by curiosity, and releases the world s evils. Disenchanted with human women, Pygmalion is said to have created Galatea out of ivory, and fell in love with his own creation. Aphrodite, the goddess of love, obliged him by breathing life into this man made woman. Such stories in which creations of men that come alive abound in literature. One of the earliest mechanical contraptions actually built was by Heron of Alexandria in the first century ad when he built water powered mechanical ducks that emitted realistic chirping sounds. Gradually, as metal-working skills improved, the line between fact and fiction got blurred. The European people were not as affluent as they are now, and many were totally occupied with eking out a living and protecting themselves from the harsh winters. Science, and art, was the forte of the rich aristocrats, and scientists had begun to gain liberty of action and were beginning independent philosophical and scientific investigations. The works of scientists and artisans (and sorcerers) blended with folklore and often became a subject matter of folklore itself. Daedalus, most famous for his artificial wings, is also credited with creating artificial people. In mediaeval Europe, Pope Sylvester II (9461003) is said to have made a statue with a talking head, with a limited vocabulary, and a penchant for predicting the future. It gave replies to queries with a yes or a no, and its human audience did not doubt that the answer was preceded by some impressive mental activity. Arab astrologers were believed to have constructed a think