ires more than one case. This is because CBR is often applied to ill understood problems, and only the best matching case may not provide the best solution. In practice, with a retrieval set of size K, the solution may be constructed from the K lessons, either by majority voting or by similarity weighted averages. Such an approach also guards against a noisy case base, where a few cases may be erroneous. Threshold Similarity The retrieval set contains all those cases that have a similarity above a chosen threshold t. R (C, (d, 1) CB sim(d, d) t This could be used when one wants to ensure that only cases with a desired similarity or better are retrieved. Note that the retrieval set may be empty. 15.1.2 Diversity Cases in the retrieval set that are maximally similar to the query are also likely to be similar to each other. We call the retrieval set obtained by the criterion given above as the Standard Retrieval Set (SRS). In some applications, one may want the cases in the retrieval set to be different from each other, and the retrieval set to be as diverse as possible (Smyth and McClave, 2001). Diversity is important in recommender systems where a user is looking for a product and may also want some choice. For example, if one is consulting a web based real estate system looking for a home, an entire new apartment complex may match the stated requirements. Then, the SRS would probably contain all apartments from the same complex, which may not offer enough choice to the user. Diversity of a retrieval set R c, d4, I4 , Co do, Ip , ..., CK dy, I is defined as, vik La. (L sim(d,, d,)) Diversity(R) Sisbk Ojai kN Se a 5 x(n-1) While choosing a case c to add to a partially constructed retrieval set R, one can also consider how different it is from the cases already in the retrieval set. The relative diversity of a case c w.r.t. a set R is defined as, RelDiversity(c, R) 1 if R x (1- sim(d;, d,)) m i 1.m ; otherwise The case to be incrementally added to the retrieval set wou