oninthesamewayasthereflexagent.
is responsible forcreating the new internal state description. Thedetails of how models and
states are represented vary widely depending on the type of environment and the particular
technology used in the agent design. Detailed examples of models and updating algorithms
appearin Chapters4,12,11,15,17,and25.
Regardless of the kind of representation used, it is seldom possible for the agent to
determine the current state of a partially observable environment exactly. Instead, the box
labeled what the world is like now (Figure 2.11) represents the agent s best guess (or
sometimes best guesses). Forexample, an automated taxi may not beable tosee around the
large truck that has stopped in front of it and can only guess about what may be causing the
hold-up. Thus,uncertainty aboutthecurrent statemaybeunavoidable, buttheagentstillhas
tomakeadecision.
A perhaps less obvious point about the internal state maintained by a model-based
agent is that it does not have to describe what the world is like now in a literal sense. For
52 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
Agent
Environment
Sensors
State
What the world
How the world evolves is like now
What it will be like
What my actions do if I do action A
What action I
Goals should do now
Actuators
Figure2.13 Amodel-based,goal-basedagent.Itkeepstrackoftheworldstateaswellas
asetofgoalsitistryingtoachieve,andchoosesanactionthatwill(eventually)leadtothe
achievementofitsgoals.
example, the taxi may be driving back home, and it may have a rule telling it to fill up with
gas on the way home unless it has at least half a tank. Although driving back home may
seem toan aspect of theworld state, the fact ofthe taxi s destination isactually an aspect of
the agent s internal state. Ifyou findthis puzzling, consider that the taxi could be in exactly
thesameplaceatthesametime,butintending toreachadifferent destination.
2.4.4 Goal-basedagents
Knowingsomethingaboutthecurrentstateoftheenvironmentisnotalwaysenoughtodecide
