on12.4. Mental Eventsand Mental Objects 451
REFERENTIAL that 2 2 5. This property is called referential transparency it doesn t matter what
TRANSPARENCY
termalogicusestorefertoanobject,whatmattersistheobjectthatthetermnames. Butfor
propositionalattitudeslikebelievesandknows,wewouldliketohavereferentialopacity the
termsuseddomatter,becausenotallagentsknowwhichtermsareco-referential.
Modallogicisdesignedtoaddressthisproblem. Regularlogicisconcernedwithasin-
MODALLOGIC
gle modality, the modality of truth, allowing us to express P is true. Modal logic includes
special modal operators that take sentences (rather than terms) as arguments. For example, Aknows P isrepresentedwiththenotation K P,where Kisthemodaloperatorforknowl-
A
edge. Ittakes twoarguments, anagent (written asthe subscript) and asentence. The syntax
ofmodallogicisthesameasfirst-orderlogic, except thatsentences canalsobeformedwith
modaloperators.
The semantics of modal logic is more complicated. In first-order logic a model con-
tains a set of objects and an interpretation that maps each name to the appropriate object,
relation, orfunction. In modal logic wewant to be able to consider both the possibility that
Superman s secret identity is Clark and that it isn t. Therefore, we will need a more com-
plicated model, one that consists of a collection of possible worlds rather than just one true
POSSIBLEWORLD
ACCESSIBILITY world. Theworlds areconnected inagraph by accessibility relations, one relation foreach
RELATIONS
modaloperator. Wesaythatworld w isaccessible fromworld w withrespect tothemodal
1 0
operator K if everything in w is consistent with what A knows in w , and we write this
A 1 0
as Acc(K ,w ,w ). Indiagrams such as Figure 12.4 weshow accessibility asan arrow be-
A 0 1
tweenpossibleworlds. Asanexample,intherealworld,Bucharestisthecapitalof Romania,
but for an agent that did not know that, other possible worlds are accessible, including ones
wherethecapital of Romaniais Sibiuor Sofia. Presumably aw