ased sstems. including work in vision. learning, general problem 'otving. and natural language understanding. This in turn has led to more emphasis being placed on research related to knowledge representation. mernory organization. and the use and manipulation of knowledge. Knowledge-based systems get their power front expert knowledge that has been coded into (acts. rules, heuristics, and procedures. The knowledge is stored in a know ledge base separate front control and inferencing components (Figure 2. Ii. This makes it possible to add new knowledge or refine existing knowledge vvithout recompiling the control and ir.tcrencing programs. This greatly simplifies the construction and maintenance of knowledge-based systems. In the knowledge lies the power! This was the message learned by a few farsighted researchers at Stanford University during the late 1960s and early 1970s. 14 Knowledge: General Concepts Chap. 2 Kn Owea"1 Unit Figure 2.1 Comeneni of knowledge Intere-cofltral based syem. The proof of their message was provided in the first knowledge-based expert systems which were shown to be more than toy problem solvers. These first systems were real world problem solvers, tackling such tasks as determining complex chemical structures given only the atomic constituents and mass spectra data from samples of the compounds, and later performing medical diagnoses of infectious blood diseases. 2.4 REPRESENTATION OF KNOWLEDGE Given the fact that knowledge is important and in fact essential for intelligent behavior, the representation of knowledge has become one of Al's top research priorities. What exactly is meant by knowledge representation? As defined above, knowledge consists of facts, concepts, rules, and so forth. It can be represented in different form-s, as mental images in one's thoughts, as spoken or written words in some language, as graphical or other pictures, and as character strings or collections of magnetic spots stored in a computer (Figure 2 2). The 