the same action schema
twice in a plan. The same approach was used in Chapter 9 for first-order logical inference.)
This represents unloading the package from an unspecified plane at SFO;any plane will do,
but we need not say which one now. We can take advantage of the power of first-order
representations: asingledescription summarizesthepossibility ofusinganyoftheplanesby
(cid:2)
implicitlyquantifying overp. Theregressedstatedescription is
g (cid:2) In(C ,p (cid:2) ) At(p (cid:2) ,SFO) Cargo(C ) Plane(p (cid:2) ) Airport(SFO).
2 2
Thefinalissueisdecidingwhichactionsarecandidates toregressover. Intheforwarddirec-
tion wechose actions that were applicable those actions that could be the next step in the
plan. Inbackward search wewantactions that are relevant those actions thatcould bethe
RELEVANCE
laststepinaplanleadinguptothecurrent goalstate.
Foran action to be relevant to a goal it obviously must contribute to the goal: at least
oneoftheaction seffects(eitherpositiveornegative)mustunifywithanelementofthegoal.
What is less obvious is that the action must not have any effect (positive or negative) that
negates an element of the goal. Now, if the goal is A B C and an action has the effect
A B Cthenthereisacolloquialsenseinwhichthatactionisveryrelevanttothegoal it
gets ustwo-thirds ofthe waythere. Butitisnot relevant inthe technical sense defined here,
because this action could not be the final step of a solution we would always need at least
onemoresteptoachieve C.
Given the goal At(C ,SFO), several instantiations of Unload are relevant: we could
2
chose any specific plane to unload from, or we could leave the plane unspecified by using
(cid:2)
theaction Unload(C ,p,SFO). Wecan reduce thebranching factorwithout ruling outany
2
solutions byalways using theaction formed bysubstituting the mostgeneral unifierinto the
(standardized) actionschema.
As another example, consider the goal Own(0136042597), given an initial state with
10billion A Action(Buy(i),PRECOND: As we me