pposethattheexternaltemperatureaffectsthebattery sensorinsuchawaythattran-
sient failures become more likely as temperature increases. Show how to augment the
DB Nstructure in Figure15.15(a),andexplainanyrequired changestothe CP Ts.
c. Giventhenewnetwork structure, canbattery readings beusedbytherobottoinferthe
currenttemperature?
15.17 Consider applying the variable elimination algorithm to the umbrella DB Nunrolled
forthree slices, where the query is P(R u ,u ,u ). Show that the space complexity of the
3 1 2 3
algorithm thesizeofthelargestfactor isthesame,regardlessofwhethertherainvariables
areeliminatedinforwardorbackwardorder.
16
MAKING SIMPLE
DECISIONS
Inwhichweseehowanagentshouldmakedecisionssothatitgetswhatitwants onaverage, atleast.
Inthischapter, wefillinthedetailsofhowutilitytheorycombineswithprobability theoryto
yield adecision-theoretic agent an agent that can make rational decisions based on whatit
believesandwhatitwants. Suchanagentcanmakedecisionsincontextsinwhichuncertainty
and conflicting goals leave a logical agent with no way to decide: a goal-based agent has a
binary distinction between good (goal) and bad (non-goal) states, while a decision-theoretic
agenthasacontinuous measureofoutcomequality.
Section 16.1 introduces the basic principle of decision theory: the maximization of
expected utility. Section 16.2 shows that the behavior of any rational agent can be captured
bysupposing autility function thatisbeingmaximized. Section 16.3discusses thenatureof
utilityfunctionsinmoredetail,andinparticulartheirrelationtoindividualquantitiessuchas
money. Section16.4showshowtohandleutilityfunctions thatdependonseveralquantities.
In Section 16.5, we describe the implementation of decision-making systems. In particular,
weintroduce aformalism called a decision network (also known asaninfluencediagram)
that extends Bayesian networks by incorporating actions and utilities. The remainder of the
chapterdiscusses issuesthatariseinapplications ofdecisiontheorytoexp