s, stochastic or fuzzy grammars may be used. Classification for these to cases may be made on the basis of least cost transform an input string into a valid recognizable string, by the degree of class set inclusion or with a similarity measure using one of the methods described in Chapter 10. 13.3 LEARNING CLASSIFICATION PATTERNS Before a system can recognize objects. it must possess knowledge of the characteristic features for those objects. This means that the system designer must ether build the necessary discriminating rules into the system or the system must learn them. In the case of a linear decision function, the weights that define class boundaries must be predefined or learned. In the case of syntactic recognition, the class grammars must he predefined or learned. Learning decision functions., grammars, or other rules can be performed in either of two ways. through supervised learning or unsupervised learning. Supervised learning is accomplished by presenting training examples to a learning unit. The examples are labeled beforehand with their correct identities or class.. The attribute values and object labels are used by the learning component to inductively extract and determine pattern criteria for each class. This knowledge is used to adjust parameters in decision functions or grammar rewrite rules. Supervised learning concepts are discussed in some detail in Part V. Therefore, we Concentrate here on some of the more important notions related to unsupervised learning. In unsupervised learning, labeled training examples are not available and little 218 Pattern Recognition Chap. 13 is known beforehand regarding the object population. In such cases, the system must be able to perceive and extract relevant properties from the otherwise unknown objects, find common patterns among them, and formulate descriptions or descrimination criteria consistent with the goals of the recognition process. This form of learning is known as clustering. It is the first step