e where this type of assumption is reasonable is in an airline KB application where city-to-city fligh..(S, not explicitly entered or provable, are assumed not to exist. Thus. CONNECT('oston.van-horn) would be inferred whenever CONNECT(boston,van-horn) could no be derived from the KB. This seems reasonable since we would not want to enter ll pairs of cities which do not have intercity flights. By augmenting a KB with an assumption (a 'netarule) which states that if the ground atom P(a) cannot be proved, assume its negation Pa), the CWA completes the theory with respect to KB. (Recall that a formal KSYStem is complete if and only if every ground atom or its negation is in the system.) Augmenting a KB with the negation of all ground atoms of the language v'hich are not derivable, gives us a complete theory. For example, a KB containing oily the clauses P(a) P(b) P(a) - Q(a) and modus ponens is not complete, since neither Q(b) nor Q(b) is infenable from the KB. This KB can be completed, however, by adding either Q(b) or In general, a KB augmented with CWA is not consistent. This is easily' seen by considering the KB consisting of the clause P(a) V Q(b) Now, since none of the ground literals in this clause are derivable, the augmented KB becomes P(a) V Q(b) P(a), Q(b) which is inconsistent. It can be shown that consistency can be maintained for a special type of 90 Dealing with Inconsistencies and Uncertainties Chap. 5 CWA. This is a KS consisting of Horn clauses. If a KB is Consistent and Horn, then its CWA augmentation is consistent. (Recall that Horn clauses are clauses with at most one positive literal.) It may appear that the global nature of the negation as failure assumption is a serious drawback of CWA. And indeed there are many applications where it is not appropriate. There is a way around this using completion formulas which we discuss in the next section. Even so, CWA is essentially the formalism under which Prolog operates and Prolog has been shown to be ef