ynset is said to be a meronym of a concept represented by a different synset, if the former is a part of the latter. The latter would be called a holonym of the former. WordNet also has Morphological Relations which are lexical in nature. For example, trees is morphologically related to tree ; and thus we can move from trees to tree by suffix stripping. More involved techniques may be required to handle all inflections and derivations. (ce my Gen) iS) ) (ars ) substance (ot) mC arm (and bon) s. hyponymy antonymy meronymy Figure 16.4 WordNet relations. http: wordnetcode.princeton.edu Spapers.pdf An interesting application of WordNet is that it can be exploited to compute a numeric estimate of semantic relatedness between synsets in the closed interval 0,1 . There is an open source Perl utility WordNet::similarity2 (Pederson et al., 2004) that provides access to several different measures based on the graph theoretic structure of WordNet. We discuss a simple example below to illustrate one such measure. Let us consider a hypernymy tree in WordNet as shown in Figure 16.5. Here, the hypernym tree with the smallest path from the token fox to the root node entity is shown. The similarity between any two nodes in the tree is computed by the simple formula: Similarity(node,, nodez) 100 - 100 (Distance,cs Distanceroot) where Distanceroot Sum of distances of the two nodes to the root Distance cs Sum of distances of the two nodes to the Least Common Subsumer (LCS) The LCS is defined as the most specific concept that is the shared ancestor of the two nodes. In the example shown in Figure 16.5, the similarity between the token fox and wrongdoer is calculated below. The LCS here is wrongdoer . Distance of the node fox from the node wrongdoer is 2. Distance of the node wrongdoer from the node wrongdoer is 0 Therefore Distance cs 2 0 2 Distance of the node fox from the root entity is 6 Distance of the node wrongdoer from the node entity is 4 Therefore Distanceroot 6 4 10 Similarity