fallthe
cities coordinates.) In many cases, however, this equation cannot be solved in closed form.
For example, with three airports, the expression for the gradient depends on what cities are
closest to each airport in the current state. This means we can compute the gradient locally
(butnotglobally); forexample,
(cid:12) f 2 (x x ). (4.2)
i c x
1 c C1
Givenalocallycorrectexpressionforthegradient,wecanperformsteepest-ascenthillclimb-
6 Abasicknowledgeofmultivariatecalculusandvectorarithmeticisusefulforreadingthissection.
132 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
ingbyupdatingthecurrentstateaccording totheformula
x x f(x),
where is a small constant often called the step size. In other cases, the objective function
STEPSIZE
mightnotbeavailableinadifferentiableformatall forexample,thevalueofaparticularset
of airport locations might be determined by running some large-scale economic simulation
EMPIRICAL package. In those cases, we can calculate a so-called empirical gradient by evaluating the
GRADIENT
response to small increments and decrements in each coordinate. Empirical gradient search
isthesameassteepest-ascent hillclimbinginadiscretized versionofthestatespace.
Hidden beneath the phrase is a small constant lies a huge variety of methods for
adjusting . The basic problem is that, if is too small, too many steps are needed; if is too large, the search could overshoot the maximum. The technique of line search tries to
LINESEARCH
overcome this dilemma by extending the current gradient direction usually by repeatedly
doubling untilf startstodecreaseagain. Thepointatwhichthisoccursbecomesthenew
current state. There are several schools of thought about how the new direction should be
chosenatthispoint.
For many problems, the most effective algorithm is the venerable Newton Raphson
NEWTON RAPHSON
method. Thisisageneral technique forfindingrootsoffunctions that is,solvingequations
of the form g(x) 0. It works by computing a new estimate for the root x according to
Newton sfor