dustrialmanipulation
task, the robot arm cannot pick up an object until the pose is known. In the case of rigid
objects, whether three-dimensional ortwo-dimensional, this problem hasasimple and well-
definedsolution basedonthealignmentmethod,whichwenowdevelop.
ALIGNMENTMETHOD
The object is represented by M features or distinguished points m ,m ,...,m in
1 2 M
three-dimensional space perhaps the vertices of a polyhedral object. These are measured
in some coordinate system that is natural for the object. The points are then subjected to
an unknown three-dimensional rotation R, followed by translation by an unknown amount t
and then projection to give rise to image feature points p ,p ,...,p on the image plane.
1 2 N
In general, N (cid:7) M, because some model points may be occluded, and the feature detector
couldmisssomefeatures(orinventfalseonesduetonoise). Wecanexpressthisas
p (Rm t) Q(m )
i i i
for a three-dimensional model point m and the corresponding image point p . Here, R
i i
is a rotation matrix, t is a translation, and denotes perspective projection or one of its
approximations, suchasscaled orthographic projection. Thenetresultisatransformation Q
that will bring the model point m into alignment with the image point p . Although we do
i i
notknow Qinitially,wedoknow(forrigidobjects)that Qmustbethesameforallthemodel
points.
Wecansolvefor Q,giventhethree-dimensional coordinates ofthreemodelpoints and
theirtwo-dimensional projections. Theintuition is asfollows: wecanwrite downequations
relating the coordinates of p to those of m . In these equations, the unknown quantities
i i
correspond totheparametersoftherotationmatrix Randthetranslation vectort. Ifwehave
enough equations, we ought to be able to solve for Q. We will not give a proof here; we
merelystatethefollowingresult:
Given three noncollinear points m , m , and m in the model, and their scaled
1 2 3
orthographic projections p , p , and p on the image plane, there exist exactly
1 2 3
twotransformationsfro