 are others which are more specific to different nodes in a wider semantic net, and are often between different kinds of things. For example, we have not represented bridge as a game. If we do so then we can define a bridge player as one who plays the game. All kinds of relations can be defined and captured. The game of bridge, for example, will have its own internal details, and the players who play it will employ a knowledge of patterns, strategies and actions that are specific to the game. A complete representation of all knowledge in this sense seems difficult, if not impossible, either for man or machine. We just strive to know more and more. 14.2 The Schema An intelligent agent has to reason about the world in which it exists. Fundamentally, the world is made up of some sub-atomic particles that obey laws that we are still trying to decipher, and whose movement results in the billions and billions of events that happen around us. Just consider the bacteria, good and bad, that inhabit a human body. Clearly, we cannot reason at the minutest level of detail. Instead we build, chunk, or group smaller elements into more manageable entities (aggregation), and create their abstractions, and (generalized) relations among the abstractions. The aggregations we reason with exist in human-defined boundaries. We can most easily reason with lengths in the range of millimetres to kilometres, and have to stretch our imagination to venture outside this range. Our sensory organs are also attuned to certain ranges. The rods and cones in our eyes respond to the visible band in the spectrum of electromagnetic frequency, and our ears are only sensitive to an audible range of sound waves. Our sense of time is defined by seconds, minutes, hours, days, years and centuries. The concepts (aggregations and abstractions) that we define, all lie within our perceptual boundaries. We see events that happen in seconds or minutes, and we perceive as static that change that takes longer or shor