llowed. The static proposition-proposition mutexes depend upon the actionaction mutexes as before. The static proposition-action mutex is defined as follows: 5. PA A proposition p is mutex with an action a if it is deleted by an atstart or at-end effect of action a. TYPSYS constructs a planning graph in which each layer Ajq or Pig is labelled with time t that marks the beginning or the end of an action or proposition respectively. As new actions and propositions are introduced, dynamic mutex relations arise which may disappear in future layers. The following are a few examples of dynamic mutexes that can be defined. The reader is referred to (Garrido et al., 2002) for more details. AAitstart-start WO actions a and b are start-start dynamic mutex at time f, if one of the following holds. Actions a and b are AAgtart-start Mutex. Some at-start condition of action a is mutex with some at-start condition of action b. PAjtystart-start For every action b; that produces proposition p at time f, an action a and p are start-start dynamic mutex at time t, if one of the following holds. Actions a and b are AAgtart-start mutex Some at-start condition of action a is mutex, with some at-start condition of action b. AAttjend-end Wo actions a and b are end-end dynamic mutex at time t, if one of the following holds. Actions a and b are AAgng-eng mutex Some at-end condition of action a is mutex with some at-end condition of action b. The two actions could not have been started together at the time when the later of the two began. That is, if D, and D, are their respective durations then actions a and b are AA min(Da, Db) startstart Research in planning with durative actions and metric resources shifted to state space search subsequently. We describe below two wellknown programs exemplifying two approaches. The program Sapa adapts the algorithm A to search with durative actions and metric resources directly. The program CRIKEY3 splits each durative action into two instantaneous ones an