lligent machines by hand.
Section2.4. The Structureof Agents 55
Performance standard
Agent
Environment
Critic Sensors
feedback
changes
Learning Performance
element element
knowledge
learning
goals
Problem
generator
Actuators
Figure2.15 Agenerallearningagent.
Heestimateshowmuchworkthismighttakeandconcludes Somemoreexpeditiousmethod
seems desirable. The method he proposes is to build learning machines and then to teach
them. In many areas of AI, this is now the preferred method for creating state-of-the-art
systems. Learning has another advantage, as wenoted earlier: it allows the agent to operate
ininitially unknown environments andtobecomemorecompetent thanitsinitial knowledge
alone might allow. In this section, we briefly introduce the main ideas of learning agents.
Throughout the book, we comment on opportunities and methods for learning in particular
kindsofagents. Part Vgoesintomuchmoredepthonthelearningalgorithms themselves.
A learning agent can be divided into four conceptual components, as shown in Fig-
ure 2.15. The most important distinction is between the learning element, which is re-
LEARNINGELEMENT
PERFORMANCE sponsibleformakingimprovements,andtheperformanceelement,whichisresponsiblefor
ELEMENT
selecting external actions. The performance element is what we have previously considered
tobetheentire agent: ittakes inpercepts and decides onactions. Thelearning element uses
feedback from the critic on how the agent is doing and determines how the performance
CRITIC
elementshouldbemodifiedtodobetterinthefuture.
Thedesignofthelearningelementdependsverymuchonthedesignoftheperformance
element. When trying to design an agent that learns a certain capability, the first question is
not Howam Igoingtogetittolearnthis? but Whatkindofperformanceelementwillmy
agentneedtodothisonceithaslearned how? Givenanagentdesign, learningmechanisms
canbeconstructed toimproveeverypartoftheagent.
Thecritic tellsthe learning element how welltheagent isdoing withrespect toafixed
perfor