ope, and this chapter is part of this book. We use the general
Part Of relationtosaythatonethingispartofanother. Objectscan begroupedinto Part Of
hierarchies, reminiscent ofthe Subset hierarchy:
Part Of(Bucharest,Romania)
Part Of(Romania,Eastern Europe)
Part Of(Eastern Europe,Europe)
Part Of(Europe,Earth).
442 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
The Part Of relation istransitive andreflexive;thatis,
Part Of(x,y) Part Of(y,z) Part Of(x,z).
Part Of(x,x).
Therefore, wecanconclude Part Of(Bucharest,Earth).
Categories of composite objects are often characterized by structural relations among
COMPOSITEOBJECT
parts. Forexample,abipedhastwolegsattached toabody:
Biped(a) l ,l ,b Leg(l ) Leg(l ) Body(b) 1 2 1 2
Part Of(l ,a) Part Of(l ,a) Part Of(b,a) 1 2
Attached(l ,b) Attached(l ,b) 1 2
l (cid:7) l l Leg(l ) Part Of(l ,a) (l l l l ) .
1 2 3 3 3 3 1 3 2
The notation for exactly two is a little awkward; we are forced to say that there are two
legs, that they are not the same, and that if anyone proposes a third leg, it must be the same
as one of the other two. In Section 12.5.2, we describe a formalism called description logic
makesiteasiertorepresentconstraints like exactly two. We can define a Part Partition relation analogous to the Partition relation for cate-
gories. (See Exercise12.8.) Anobjectiscomposedofthepartsinits Part Partition andcan
beviewedasderiving someproperties fromthoseparts. Forexample,themassofacompos-
iteobjectisthesumofthemassesoftheparts. Noticethatthisisnotthecasewithcategories,
whichhavenomass,eventhoughtheirelementsmight.
It is also useful to define composite objects with definite parts but no particular struc-
ture. For example, we might want to say The apples in this bag weigh two pounds. The
temptation would be to ascribe this weight to the set of apples in the bag, but this would be
amistake because thesetisan abstract mathematical concept thathas elements but does not
have weight. Instead, we need a new concept, which we will call a bunch. Fo