 this discussion. In particular, the order in which sifferences are considered can be critical. It is important that significant differences be reduced before less critical ones. If this is not done, a great deal of effort may be wasted on situations that take care of themselves once the main parts of the problem are solved. The simple process we have described is usually not adequate for solving complex problems. The number of permutations of differences may get too large. Working on one difference may interfere with the plan for reducing another. And in complex worlds, the required difference tables would be immense. In Chapter ]3 we look at some ways in which the basic means-ends analysis approach can be extended to tackle some of these problems. SUMMARY nee Jn Chapter 2, we listed four steps that must be taken to design a program to solve an AI problem. The first two steps were: 1, Define the problem precisely. Specify the problem space, the operators for moving within the space, and the starting and goal state(s). 2. Analyze the problem to determine where it falls with respect to seven important issues. The other two steps were to isolate and represent the task knowledge required, and to choose problem solving techniques and apply them to the problem. In this chapter, we began our discussion of the last step of this process by presenting some general-purpose, problem-solving methods. There are several important ways in which these algorithms differ, including: What the states in the search space(s) represent. Sometimes the states represent complete potential solutions (as in hill climbing). Sometimes they represent solutions that are partially specified (as in constraint satisfaction). Heuristic Search Techniques 75 How, at each stage of the search process, a state is selected for expansion. How operators to be applied to that node are selected. Whether an optimal solution can be guaranteed. Whether a given state may end up being considered more than once. How 