ion in which both momentum and energy need to be conserved. But we never think of the earth slowing down as a result of a collision with the ball. This is consistent with orders of magnitude reasoning. Assuming that there is a completely elastic two body collision, what can we say about the resultant velocities of the two bodies? Given the exact values of the masses and velocities, one can solve the two equations representing the conservation of momentum and conservation of energy. But given only the fact that one has much greater mass than the other, can we make a qualitative prediction? The approach described here was presented by Olivier Raiman (1986; 1991). Let the two bodies be travelling with linear motion in the opposite direction. Let Mpig be the mass of the large body and M.maj be the mass of the small body, and let Mpig Meman- That is, Mpig is much much larger than Mgman. Let Vibig) and V,small) be the initial velocities of the two bodies, and let them be of comparable magnitude and opposite direction. Let V; (M) and V; (m) be the final velocities that need to be determined. When we reason with order of magnitudes, we reason with sets of values rather than individual values. Each set is a quantity space that defines a range of values. Let us say that x and y are two exact values. Instead of knowing the exact values, we might have information about sets X and Y from which these values come from. That is, x X and y Y. We refer to X and Y as coarse values. Given such values, we can define the following. Two coarse values are (approximately) equal if the corresponding sets overlap. Xz YiffXYO YO Observe that the operator is not transitive. This implies that one needs to careful in its use in solving for values. The following operations can be defined on coarse values. X Y ( xty xreX yey AY xy xeX yeY Y -x xeX X1 1 xex Two coarse values can be said to be of different orders of magnitude, if they come from or are associated with two different sets called Small a