
and a sequence of HL As (each defined by preconditions and angelic specifications of opti-
mistic and pessimistic reachable sets) and computes optimistic and pessimistic descriptions
ofthereachable setofthesequence.
11.6 In Figure 11.2 we showed how to describe actions in a scheduling problem by using
separate fields for DURATION, USE, and CONSUME. Now suppose we wanted to combine
scheduling withnondeterministic planning, whichrequires nondeterministic andconditional
effects. Considereachofthethreefieldsandexplainifthey shouldremainseparate fields,or
iftheyshouldbecomeeffectsoftheaction. Giveanexampleforeachofthethree.
11.7 Someoftheoperationsinstandardprogramminglanguagescanbemodeledasactions
that change the state of the world. For example, the assignment operation changes the con-
tentsofamemorylocation, andtheprintoperation changes thestate oftheoutput stream. A
program consisting oftheseoperations canalsobeconsidered asaplan, whosegoalisgiven
436 Chapter 11. Planningand Actinginthe Real World
bythespecification oftheprogram. Therefore, planning algorithms canbeusedtoconstruct
programsthatachieveagivenspecification.
a. Writeanactionschemafortheassignmentoperator(assigningthevalueofonevariable
toanother). Rememberthattheoriginal valuewillbeoverwritten!
b. Show how object creation can be used by a planner to produce a plan for exchanging
thevaluesoftwovariablesbyusingatemporaryvariable.
11.8 Suppose the Flip action always changes the truth value of variable L. Show how
to define its effects by using an action schema with conditional effects. Show that, despite
the use of conditional effects, a 1-CNF belief state representation remains in 1-CNF after a
Flip.
11.9 In the blocks world we were forced to introduce two action schemas, Move and
Move To Table, in order to maintain the Clear predicate properly. Show how conditional
effectscanbeusedtorepresent bothofthesecaseswithasingleaction.
11.10 Conditionaleffectswereillustratedforthe Suck actioninthevacuumworld which
