n one item respectively. 10.5. PARTIAL MATCHING For many Al applications complete matching between two or more structures is inappropriate. For example, input representations of speech waveforms or visual scenes may have been corrupted by noise or other unwanted distortions. In such cases, we do not want to reject the input out of hand. Our systems should be more tolerant of such commonly occurring problems. Instead, we want our systems to be able to find an acceptable or best match between the input and some reference description. 202 Matching Techniques Chap. 10 Compensating for Distortions Finding an object in a photograph given only a general description of the object is a common problem in vision applications. For example, the task may be to locate a human face or human body in photographs without the necessity of storing hundreds of specific face templates. A better approach in this case would be to store a single reference description of the object. Matching between photograph regions and corresponding descriptions then could be approached using either a measure of correlation or, alternatively, by altering the image to obtain a closer fit. If nothing is known about the noise and distortion characteristics, correlation methods can be ineffective or even misleading. In such cases, methods based on mechanical distortion may be more appropriate. Imagine that our reference image is on a transparent rubber sheet. This sheet is moved over the input image and at each location is stretched to get the best match alignment between the two images. The match between the two can then b evaluated by how well they correspond and how much push-and-pull distortion i needed to obtain the best correspondence. In practice a discrete version of the stretchable model is needed for Computer implementation. One way this can be accomplished is to use a number of rigid pieces (like templates) connected with springs. The pieces can correspond to low level areas such as pixels or even l