h procedure. But in AM s situation the fact that several paths recommend the same task does matter. Each contributes a reason why the task would lead to an interesting result. The more such reasons there are, the more likely it is that the task really would lead to something good. So we need a way to record proposed tasks along with the reasons they have been proposed. AM used a task agenda. An agenda is a list of tasks a system could perform. Associated with each task there are usually two things: a list of reasons why the task is being proposed (often called justifications) and a rating representing the overall weight of evidence suggesting that the task would be useful. An agenda-driven system uses the following procedure. Algorithm: Agenda-Driven Search 1, Do until a goal state is reached or the agenda is empty: (a) Choose the most promising task from the agenda. Notice that this task can be represented in any desired form. It can be thought of as an explicit statement of what to do next or simply as an indication of the next node to be expanded. (b) Execute the task by devoting to it the number of resources determined by its importance. The important resources to consider are time and space. Executing the task will probably generate additional tasks (successor nodes). For each of them, do the following: (i) See if it is already on the agenda. [f so, then see if this same reason for doing it is already on its list of justifications. If so, ignore this current evidence. If this justification was not already present, add it to the list. If the task was not on the agenda, insert it. (ii) Compute the new task s rating, combining the evidence from all its justifications. Not all justifications need have equal weight. It is often useful to associate with each justification a measure of how strong a reason it is. These measures are then combined at this step to produce an overall rating for the task. Heuristic Search Techniques 63 saosin cepa RRS One important question