This follows from the definition of the ordering relation between formal concepts. Further, it can be seen that a subgraph of concepts containing an object g has a unique infimum. This node can then be labelled with g with the understanding that all nodes higher in the ordering also contain g. Likewise, one can find a unique highest concept in the lattice that is labelled with a given property m, and this can be labelled with m, and it is understood that all nodes lower in the partial order also have the property m. The lattice with this succinct labelling is shown in Figure 14.34. The diagram also contains nodes that are fully or partially shaded. The upper half is shaded whenever the node gets labelled with a property, the lower half if it gets labelled with an object, and the node is fully shaded if it has both kinds of labels. A ABCDEF FIGURE 14.33 The concept lattice for the context from Table 14.1. The supremum is the set of all objects, and the infimum, the set of all properties. In this example, the supremum has no common property, and the infimum has no object having all properties. mw D 1 . LL FIGURE 14.34 A simpler labelling in which each object and each property occurs exactly once in the diagram. The labels occur at shaded circles. The upper half is shaded for properties and the lower half for objects. A concept represents a maximal subarray of X s in the table that represents the formal context that can be formed with the combination of objects and properties by row and column interchanges. The following table gives another example of a context in which the objects are students and the properties the subject periods they like. There are four concepts, two of which are marked in the table, one with shaded squares ( aarti, amrita , science, games ), and the other with a thicker boundary ( avinash, arnav, aarti, amrita, ashwani , science ). In the example constructed here, no shuffling of rows and columns is needed. It must be noted that all concepts need