k below. The level of understanding that a system (or a human for that matter) has, depends upon the depth of knowledge the system (or human) has. Having knowledge of physical objects like the facts that paint is liquid and can drip, and that paints dry up, help in understanding why things happen the way they do. A deep understanding system would have the typical event patterns captured in frames, with specific events linked to domain knowledge like physics or chemistry, to help explain why things happen the way they do. The idea of using words of a language to construct networks of relations was further taken up in the Wordnet project at Princeton (Fellbaum, 1998) described in Chapter 16. The traditional approach to language processing was to first do a syntactic analysis of the given sentence to determine the grammatical structure, and then the semantics. Charniak (1983) proposed that the networks for semantics and syntax of words and phrases from a language be interconnected to enable information flow from syntax to semantics and vice versa (Figure 14.9). Word-sense disambiguation could be done by passing markers from each of the senses of the word that are possible. The markers from the correct sense of the word were more likely to intersect with those from the other related words. This idea for word-sense disambiguation was also developed by Graeme Hirst (Hirst and Charniak, 1982), (Hirst, 1984; 1988). Syntax Semantics 9 Path Checker ee Words N Marker Passer l FIGURE 14.9 The interplay between different kinds of information and processes in Charniak s proposed parser (Charniak, 1983). The marker passing algorithm is essentially a form of search with distributed control. A related idea is that of relaxation, which comes from connectionist systems like the Hopfield network (see Chapter 4). In such a network, nodes can be in different levels of activation, and the activation value of a node influences the activation value of its neighbours via the edges. The influ