96;Juelsand Wattenberg,1996;Baluja,1997). Suchfindings
are not universally popular within the GA community, but recent attempts within that com-
munity to understand population-based search as an approximate form of Bayesian learning
(see Chapter 20) might help close the gap between the field and its critics (Pelikan et al.,
1999). The theory of quadratic dynamical systems may also explain the performance of
GAs(Rabani etal.,1998). See Lohnetal.(2001) foranexampleof GAsapplied toantenna
design, and Rennerand Ekart(2003)foranapplication tocomputer-aided design.
GENETIC Thefieldofgeneticprogrammingiscloselyrelatedtogeneticalgorithms. Theprinci-
PROGRAMMING
pal difference is that the representations that are mutated and combined are programs rather
156 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
thanbitstrings. Theprogramsarerepresentedintheformof expressiontrees;theexpressions
canbeinastandard language suchas Lisporcanbespecially designed torepresent circuits,
robot controllers, and so on. Crossover involves splicing together subtrees rather than sub-
strings. This form of mutation guarantees that the offspring are well-formed expressions,
whichwouldnotbethecaseifprogramsweremanipulated asstrings.
Interestingeneticprogrammingwasspurredby John Koza swork(Koza,1992,1994),
but it goes back at least to early experiments with machine code by Friedberg (1958) and
withfinite-state automata by Fogeletal. (1966). Aswithgenetic algorithms, there isdebate
about the effectiveness of the technique. Kozaet al. (1999) describe experiments in the use
ofgenetic programmingtodesigncircuitdevices.
Thejournals Evolutionary Computation and IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Com-
putation covergenetic algorithms and genetic programming; articles are alsofound in Com-
plex Systems, Adaptive Behavior, and Artificial Life. The main conference is the Genetic
and Evolutionary Computation Conference(GECCO).Goodoverviewtextsongeneticalgo-
rithmsaregivenby Mitchell (1996), Fogel(2000), and Langdon and Poli(