ue. After (say) so is expanded one more, the node sg will join the fray too. Then depending upon which partial policy looks better, AO will continue expanding the fringe nodes till it has the solution graph. The reader is encouraged to continue this hand simulation of the algorithm, LAO will, like AO , find the optimal policy provided that the heuristic function is admissible. That is, h(s) V (s), the optimal value of the node. The values used in our example, which are the costs of the shortest deterministic paths, are indeed admissible, because the values of the states cannot go below these costs. 17.7 Combining Evidences to form Beliefs Where do our beliefs come from? According to the Nyaya Sutras of Gotama, there are four possible sources of knowledge perception (pratyaksha), inference (anumana), comparison (upamana) and verbal testimony (shabda, which could be of God from the vedas, or of a trustworthy human!) (Vidyabhusana, 2003). Quine and Ullian (1978) concur. They assert that the two main sources of our beliefs are direct observation and inference. They ask the question as to how we come to believe that there are quarks, chromosomes and nebula when none of them are directly perceptible. Obviously, we form theories and models of the world we live in and at times we have to revise our models (beliefs) when new evidence comes to light. Starting with the belief in the earth being flat and at the centre of the universe, we now accept that it is one on the nine (or eight? or ten?) planets going around our sun, which itself is a not too significant star in our galaxy. In their book The Web of Belief, they describe a problem of updating beliefs when more evidence comes to the fore, with the following murder mystery (Quine and Ullian, 1978). Let Abbot, Babbitt, and Cabot be suspects in a murder case. Abbott has an alibi, in the register of a respectable hotel in Albany. Babbitt also has an alibi, for his brother-inlaw testified that Babbitt was visiting him in Brookl