mantic constraints, inference, and other forms of object analysis within the discourse content. This example should demonstrate again that language cannot be separated from intelligence and reasoning. To fully understand the above situation requires that a program be able to reason about people's goals, beliefs. motives, and facts about the world in general. The semantic structures constructed from utterances such as the above, must account for all aspects of meaning in what is known as the domain. context. and the task. The domain refers to the knowledge that is part of the world model the system knows about. This includes object descriptions, relationships, and other relevant concepts. The cornea relates to previous expressions, the setting and time ot the utterances, and the beliefs. ,esires, and intentions of the speakers. A h O/s IS part of the service the system otters, such as retrieving information from a data base, providing expert advice, or performing a language translation The domain. context, and task are what we have loosely referred to before as semantics, pragmatle, and world knowledge. 256 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 Semantic interpretations require that utterances be transformed into coherent expressions in the firm of FOPL clauses, associative networks, frames, or scriptlike structures that can be manipulated by the understanding program. There are a number of different approaches to the transformation problem. The approach we have been following up to this point is one in which the transformation is made in stages. In the first stage, a syntactic analysis is performed and a tree-like structure is produced using. a parser. This stage is followed by use of a semantic analyzer to produce either an intermediate or final semantic structure. Another approach is to transform the sentences directly into the target structures with little syntactical analysis. Such approaches typically depend on the use of constraints given by semantic grammars or