 The Naiyayika philosophers again generalized the condition for a vyap s. X is absent from all those instances from which Y is . This says the X can only occur if Y occurs. herever there is no fire. 1 logic has largely been subservient to philosophy. It has been preoccupied with the nature of exist can accept to be true. rn logic has it roots in system developed by Aristotle. It is a tool that one can use for making valid int is that given a set of premises or statements accepted to be true, to decide what other statements are entailed. s fine for the use of computers for theorem proving and reasoning, because we expect them to work ; we define for them. But if at a later stage we would want our machines to philosophize then we r 9 able to be concerned with what is really true in the domain of discourse, and then look into why t is true. ow come back to our study of logic as a mechanism for reasoning. ropositional Logic oasically symbol processing machinery. A logic machine is constructed by defining a language, anc dd new sentences. The language is a formal language in which well formed formulas represent sent ons. We begin by studying the simplest language, the propositional logic. anguage for logic consists of two parts. 2 the logical part, which is independent of what the symbols are supposed to symbolize. the other, the non-logical part is concerned with what is being said. ogical part of the vocabulary contains symbols like A , V , 4 , and D , read as and , or , respectively. It also includes sets of brackets ( , and ) , and often for readability , , , and : the symbols -L and rT read as bottom and top . on-logical symbols in propositional logic consists of a countable set of symbols P P4, Po, P3, ... .' symbols P, Q, R, ... . These symbols stand for atomic sentences or atomic formulas or proposi sntence or formula is the smallest unit to which a truth value can be assigned. ill use the symbols a, B, y, and 6 to denote sentences (or formulas) in the language. 