 485 and 492) to express the conditional probability
P(z y)astheratiooftwosums,eachoverentriesinthejointdistribution P(X,Y,Z).
b. Now use Equation (14.1) to write this expression in terms of the network parameters (X), (Y X),and (Z Y).
c. Next,expandoutthesummationsinyourexpressionfrompart(b),writingoutexplicitly
the terms for the true and false values of each summed variable. Assuming that all
(cid:2)
network parameters satisfy the constraint (x parents(X )) 1, show that the
xi i i
resultingexpression reducesto (x y).
d. Generalize this derivation to show that (X Parents(X )) P(X Parents(X ))
i i i i
forany Bayesiannetwork.
Exercises 559
14.3 Theoperationofarcreversalina Bayesiannetworkallowsustochangethedirection
ARCREVERSAL
of an arc X Y while preserving the joint probability distribution that the network repre-
sents (Shachter, 1986). Arc reversal may require introducing new arcs: all the parents of X
alsobecomeparentsof Y,andallparents of Y alsobecomeparents of X.
a. Assume that X and Y start with m and n parents, respectively, and that all variables
havekvalues. Bycalculatingthechangeinsizeforthe CP Tsof X and Y,showthatthe
total number of parameters in the network cannot decrease during arc reversal. (Hint:
theparents of X and Y neednotbedisjoint.)
b. Underwhatcircumstances canthetotalnumberremainconstant?
c. Let the parents of X be U V and the parents of Y be V W, where U and W are
disjoint. Theformulasforthenew CP Tsafterarcreversalareasfollows:
(cid:12)
P(Y U,V,W) P(Y V,W,x)P(x U,V)
x
P(X U,V,W,Y) P(Y X,V,W)P(X U,V) P(Y U,V,W).
Prove that the new network expresses the same joint distribution over all variables as
theoriginal network.
14.4 Considerthe Bayesiannetworkin Figure14.2.
a. Ifnoevidenceisobserved,are Burglary and Earthquake independent? Provethisfrom
thenumerical semanticsandfromthetopological semantics.
b. Ifweobserve Alarm true,are Burglary and Earthquake independent? Justifyyour
answerbycalculatingwhethertheprobabilities involvedsatisfythedefin