 cases are identical then the corresponding lessons will have the same utility for any given problem. Equivalently, if the lessons in two cases have different utility values for a given problem then the two descriptions in the case must be different. VpVeNV ce; (ce; d), I Ao dl nd hh, D up. I) u(p. 1D) or, VpVe Ve, (o, d, I a a d, le a u(p, 1) up, L) D d,; dj) Apart from these, there are issues of maintenance as well. One has to decide which cases to retain, which ones to delete, and what new cases are to be added. Cases cannot be added in an unrestricted manner because the retrieval performance goes down as the case base grows in size. In a dynamic environment, some cases may become obsolete and may need to be retired. 15.1.1 The Retrieval Task Given a case base and given a problem to solve, the description of the problem is matched with the descriptions of the cases in the case base. The set of retrieved cases constitute the retrieval set R. The retrieval goals may be one of the following, All Best The retrieval set contains all cases that have maximal similarity with the problem description. That is, Re C (d, 1) CB AC, Gd, ,) CB and sim(d, d,) sim(d, d) This goal says that the retrieval set must contain all the cases with the highest similarity. Observe, that this does not mean that all the retrieved cases are identical, but only that their similarity with the problem description is the same. K Nearest Neighbours The retrieval set must contain the K most similar cases, or the K nearest neighbours when we view the cases in some space. RE C, (d, le CBI AC, (d,1,) CBR and sim(d, d,) sim(d, d,) and R F K Nearest Neighbours retrieval or KNN retrieval is the most commonly used criterion. Observe that the All Best criterion could retrieve just one case. Very often, one requires more than one case. This is because CBR is often applied to ill understood problems, and only the best matching case may not provide the best solution. In practice, with a retrieval set of size K