ch as BASIC, C and Java) have been used to write AI code, the better known languages are PROLOG and LISP. PROLOG was first developed by Alain Colmerauer of the University of Marseilles, France in the early 1970s and was used as a tool for Programming in Logic. PROLOG is known for its in-built depth-first search engine and for its ease in quick prototyping. A PROLOG program, unlike other computer language programs, comprises a description of the problem using a number of facts and rules. Execution is more of defining a goal that forces the PROLOG Inference Engine to search and move in a direction that yields one or more solutions that help achieve the goal. Section 6.2 gave a brief description about PROLOG from the point of view of logic. In this chapter we try to cover the basic principles of programming in PROLOG to enable the reader to comprehend and program for AL It may be noted that only those features that are prominent and essential to arm the reader to write Al programs are discussed. As will be seen the language is simple, more akin to English and thus quickly learnt. A variety of PROLOG compilers are currently available. The programs discussed herein have been written and compiled using LPA WIN-PROLOG. Most of the programs do not use LPA WIN-PROLOG specific predicates and thus will work fine on other PROLOG environments:as well; for all others you will require the LPA WIN-PROLOG compiler. 25.2 CONVERTING ENGLISH TO PROLOG FACTS AND RULES It is extremely simple to convert English sentences or facts into their PROLOG equivalents. Here are a few sentences converted into PROLOG. PROLOG - The Naturai Language of Artificial Intelligence 497 English PROLOG The cakes are delicious. delicious(cakes). The pickles are delicious. delicious(pickles). Biryani is delicious. delicious(biryani). The pickles are spicy. spicy(pickles). Priya relishes coffee. Telishes(priya,coffee). Priya likes food if they are delicious. likes(priya, Food) if delicious(Food). Prakash likes f