liftedversion ofthepropositional reso-
lution rule given on page 253. Two clauses, which are assumed to be standardized apart so
that they share no variables, can be resolved if they contain complementary literals. Propo-
sitional literals are complementary if one is the negation of the other; first-order literals are
complementary ifoneunifieswiththenegationoftheother. Thus,wehave
(cid:3) (cid:3) , m m
1 k 1 n
SUBST( ,(cid:3) 1 (cid:3) i 1 (cid:3) i 1 (cid:3) k m 1 m j 1 m j 1 m n )
where UNIFY((cid:3)
i
, m
j
) . Forexample, wecanresolvethetwoclauses Animal(F(x)) Loves(G(x),x) and Loves(u,v) Kills(u,v) by eliminating the complementary literals Loves(G(x),x) and Loves(u,v), with unifier u G(x),v x , toproducetheresolvent clause Animal(F(x)) Kills(G(x),x) .
This rule is called the binary resolution rule because it resolves exactly two literals. The
BINARYRESOLUTION
binary resolution rulebyitself does notyield acomplete inference procedure. Thefullreso-
lutionruleresolvessubsetsofliteralsineachclausethatareunifiable. Analternativeapproach
is to extend factoring the removal of redundant literals to the first-order case. Proposi-
tional factoring reduces two literals to one if they are identical; first-order factoring reduces
twoliterals toone iftheyare unifiable. Theunifiermustbeapplied tothe entire clause. The
combination ofbinaryresolution andfactoring iscomplete.
9.5.3 Exampleproofs
Resolution proves that KB by proving KB unsatisfiable, that is, by deriving the
empty clause. The algorithmic approach is identical to the propositional case, described in
348 Chapter 9. Inference in First-Order Logic American(x) Weapon(y) Sells(x,y,z) Hostile(z) Criminal(x) Criminal(West)
American(West) American(West) Weapon(y) Sells(West,y,z) Hostile(z) Missile(x) Weapon(x) Weapon(y) Sells(West,y,z) Hostile(z)
Missile(M1) Missile(y) Sells(West,y,z) Hostile(z) Missile(x) Owns(Nono,x) Sells(West,x,Nono) Sells(West,M1,z) Hostile(z)
Missile(M1) Missile(M1) Owns(Nono,M1) Hostile(Nono)
Owns