if the robot does not have full information. For example, one operator may require that an object weigh less than fifty pounds. Navigating to the object and applying a force to it may take the robot several minutes. At that rate, it is impossible to traverse and backtrack over a large search space. Worse still, it may be impossible to evaluate a projected arrangement of furniture without actually moving the pieces first. Recent years have seen efforts to integrate research in robotics and AI. The old idea of simply attaching sensors and effectors to existing Al programs has given way to a serious rethinking of basic AI algorithms in light of the problems involved in dealing with the physical world. Research in robotics is likewise affected by AI techniques, since reasoning about goals and plans is essential for mapping perceptions onto appropriate actions. In this chapter, we explore the interface between robotics and AI. We do not delve too deeply into purely robotic issues, but instead focus on how the AI techniques we have seen in this book can be used and/ or modified to handle problems that arise in dealing with the physical world. At this point, one might ask whether physical robots are necessary for research purposes. Since current AI programs already operate in simulated worlds, why not build more realistic simulations, which better model the real world? Such simulators do exist, for example, Carbonell and Hood [1986] and Langley et at, [1981b]. There are several advantages to using a simulated world: Experiments can be conducted very rapidly, conditions can easily be replicated, programs can retum to previous states at no cost, and sensory input can be treated in a high-level fashion. Furthermore, simulators require no fragile, expensive mechanical parts. The major drawback to simulators is figuring out exactly which factors to build in. Experience with real robots continues to expose tough problems that do not arise even in the most sophisticated simulator