ve the words are part of syntax and the nodes below define the semantics. Edges with arrowheads represent excitatory links and edges with rounded ends represent inhibitory links. To get a particular interpretation, one might activate certain nodes. For example, if Time and adjective are activated then the verb sense of time will get inhibited via the link, the noun sense of flies will get activated, which will inhibit the verb sense of flies (not shown in the figure). The process of relaxation is to allow all nodes to be influenced by their (edge) neighbours, till they settle down into a stable state. In that case, one expects one sense of each word to get chosen in a consistent manner, along with the appropriate syntactic categories. Amongst the ideas put forward by Quillian was that instead of using different kinds of edges to relate concepts, the relations (usually verbs) could themselves be concepts, and represented as nodes in the semantic net. This notion was further developed by John Sowa in his work on Conceptual Graphs. We look at Conceptual Graphs in the last section in this chapter. 14.5 Scripts, Goals, Plans and MOPs The ability to use language has been hypothesized to have been critical to the development of intelligence in humans. It is likely that this faculty will need to be bestowed upon machines too, if they are to ever operate intelligently in a dynamic multi-agent world. It has been realized by many researchers in artificial intelligence that a crucial, and probably critical, part of language understanding is the ability to represent knowledge and reason with it. Language is in fact a means of exchanging and storing knowledge, but it is the knowledgeprocessing ability that is the basis for the use of language. And a key to using knowledge efficiently is using structured representations. This has been the theme of this chapter beginning with schemas and frames, and this theme has been brilliantly illustrated by the work of Roger Schank and his gro