all surely, very | of the region a i na Somewhat, | Dilutes the tan>] i S Very Tall abit, rather, | region a 205 quite 3 = *Somewhat o Tall 2 25 3 3.5 4 4.5 | nes Extremely Height in Metres Tall 22.8 a@ CUT THRESHOLD The minimum truth membership level for a fuzzy set forms the o cur threshold for that fuzzy set. Membership values below this threshold are treated as equivalent to zero, Naturally this threshold affects the support of the fuzzy set. Thus as this threshold value increases, the support of the fuzzy set decreases. Figure 22.6 shows one such a cut (44, = 0.27) for the fuzzy set Hot. a cuts, implemented either as strictly less than a certain membership value or relaxed as "less than or equal to mode, aid in filtering out noise by prescribing a minimum truth level requirement. Such cuts have to be implemented with care and should not be raised beyond the overlapping areas of the fuzzy sets lest some points in the universe of discourse (U) become excluded from all the fuzzy sets. 0.27 140 Temperature Fig. 22.6 a@Cut for the Fuzzy Set Hot 1 3 : : { : Fuzzy Logic Systems 455 22.9 NEURO FUZZY SYSTEMS One must bear in mind that fuzzy logic systems do not possess any inherent method of learning, It is the expert's knowledge that makes the fuzzy system work to satisfaction. In more complex domains even an expert may not be able to provide error-free data or knowledge. This is where a neuro fuzzy system could be used to learn to tune the system and reject unnecessary or redundant fuzzy rules. Just as a multi-layer neural network, a neuro-fuzzy system also has layers that embed the fuzzy system. Figure 22.7 shows how part of the room cooler system can be modeled as a neuro fuzzy one. As can be seen the temperature and the speed of the fan form the initial inputs whose memberships are found from the respective triangular regions. These memberships form inputs to a second layer that comprise the rules. Note that the connections are made as per the rules R1 through R8. 