ctive inference, an invalid, but useful form of inference. In this chapter we continue the study of machine learning, but in a more focused manner. Here, we study a single learning method, learning by inductive inference. Inductive learning is the process of acquiring generalized knowledge from examples or instances of some class. This form of learning is accomplished through inductive inference, the process of reasoning from a part to a whole, front instances to generalizations, or from the individual to the universal. It is a powerful form of learning which we humans do almost effortlessly. Even though it is not a valid form of inference, it appears to work well much of the lime. Because of its importance, we have devoted two complete chapters to the subject. 18.2 BASIC CONCEPTS When we conclude that October weather is always pleasant in El Paso after having observed the weather there for a few seasons, or when we claim that all swans are white after seeing only a small number of white swans, or when we conclude that all Sots are tough negotiators after conducting business with only a few, we are learning by induction. Our conclusions may not always be valid, however. For example, there are also black Australian swans and some weather records show that October weather in El Paso was inclement. Even so, these conclusions or rules are useful They are correct much or most of the time, and they allow us to adjust our behavior and formulate important decisions with little cognitive effort. One can only marvel at our ability to formulate a general rule for a whole class of objects, finite or not, after having observed only a few examples. How is it we are able to make this large inductive leap and arrive at an accurate conclusion so easily? For example, how is it that a first time traveler to France will conclude that all French people speak French after having spoken only to one Frenchman named Henri'? At the same time, our traveler would not incorrectly conclude that 