nse logic he called KT. The language used consisted of propositional logic assumptions, the four tense operators P. F. H, and 6, and the following axioms: G(Q -. R) - (GQ -+ GR) H(Q -, R) -i' (HQ -. HR) 'GHQ i.Q HGQ -. Q To complete the formal system, inference rules of propositional logic such as modus ponens and the two rules Q Q HQ GQ Sc; 5.5 Fuzzy logic and Natural Language Computations 97 were added. These rules state that if Q is true, infer that Q has always been the case and Q will always be the case, respectively. The semantics of a temporal logic is closely related to the frame problem The frame problem is the problem of managing changes which occur from one situation to another or from frame to frame as in a moving picture sequence. For example. a KB which describes a robot's world must know which facts change as a result of some action taken by the robot. If the robot throws out the cat, turns off the light, leaves the room, and locks the door, some, but not all facts which describe the room in the nw situation must be changed. Various schemes have been proposed for the management of temporally changing worlds including other modal operators and time and date tokens. This problem has taken on increased importance and a number of solutions have been offered. Stilt much work remains to find a comprehensive solution. 5.6 FUZZY LOGIC AND NATURAL LANGUAGE COMPUTATIONS We have already noted several limitations of traditional logics in dealing w ith uncertain and incomplete knowledge. We have now considered methods which extend the expressive power of the traditional logics and permit different forms of nonmonotonic reasoning. All of the extensions considered thus far have been based on the truth functional features of traditional logics. They admit interpretations which are either true or false only. The use of two valued logics is considered by some practitioners as too limiting. They fail to effectively represent vague or fuzz> concepts. "TALL" For example, 