 and geometrical analogies typically found in aptitude or GRE tests are given by (a) (b) house: hut (b) water : dam tree : : battery (d) (c) green go #0 red :_ 0 Examples of more abstract analogies are the planetary system or atomic model noted above, the proof of a theorem based on a similar known proof, solving a new problem from knowledge of an old familiar problem solving technique, learning to play the card galvie of bridge from a knowledge of hearts, or producing a new algorithm for a program using previously learned programming examples and concepts. Although applications of analogical methods have received less attention in Al than other methods,some important results have been published including (Burstein. 1986. Carbonell, 1983 and 1986, Greiner. 1988, Kling. 1971, Mc Dermott, 9. and Winston, 1980) Researchers in related fields have also made important 197 contributions cognitive science (Gentner. 1983), and psychology (Rumethart and Norman. 1981) Several of the researchers in Al have produced working programs based on their models of the analogical process. We examine some of these models in the following section In the remainder of this section we investigate the analogical reasoning process in some detail. The Analogical Reasoning Process Analogical reasoning was briefly described in Chapter 4 as a nonvalid foam of inference This follows from the tact that conclusions based on analogies are not necessarily logical entailments of the source knowledge Analogy is a form of plausible reasoning It is based on previously tested knowledge that bears a strong resemblance to the current situation. There are five essential steps involved in the analogical learning process. A step is the mapping process which is illustrated in Figure 20.1 and described c-otrai beow Analogical Learning Process Analogue recognition A new pohiem r sttuati er'cui. recognized 1, as being similar to 3 previously encountered situation Sec. 20.2 Analogical Reasoning and Learning 419 Bus d