thisonceithaslearned how? Givenanagentdesign, learningmechanisms
canbeconstructed toimproveeverypartoftheagent.
Thecritic tellsthe learning element how welltheagent isdoing withrespect toafixed
performance standard. The critic is necessary because the percepts themselves provide no
indication of the agent s success. For example, a chess program could receive a percept
indicating that it has checkmated its opponent, but it needs a performance standard to know
thatthisisagoodthing;theperceptitselfdoesnotsayso. Itisimportantthattheperformance
56 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
standard be fixed. Conceptually, one should think of it as being outside the agent altogether
becausetheagentmustnotmodifyittofititsownbehavior.
PROBLEM The last component of the learning agent is the problem generator. It is responsible
GENERATOR
for suggesting actions that will lead to new and informative experiences. The point is that
if the performance element had its way, it would keep doing the actions that are best, given
whatitknows. Butiftheagent iswillingtoexplore alittle anddosomeperhaps suboptimal
actions inthe short run, itmight discover muchbetteractions forthelong run. Theproblem
generator s job is to suggest these exploratory actions. This is what scientists do when they
carry out experiments. Galileo did not think that dropping rocks from the top of a tower in
Pisa was valuable in itself. He was not trying to break the rocks or to modify the brains of
unfortunate passers-by. His aim was to modify his own brain by identifying a better theory
ofthemotionofobjects.
Tomake theoverall design moreconcrete, letusreturn tothe automated taxi example.
The performance element consists of whatever collection of knowledge and procedures the
taxi has for selecting its driving actions. The taxi goes out on the road and drives, using
thisperformance element. Thecritic observes theworldand passes information along tothe
learningelement. Forexample,afterthetaximakesaquickleftturnacrossthreelanesoftr