. There is some psychological evidence to support the belief that the human eye uses a form of Gaussian transformation called Lateral inhibition which has the effect of enhancing the contrast between gradually changing objects, such as an object and its background. Another approach used to filter the digitized image applies frequency domain transforms such as the Fourier transform. Since edges represent higher frequency components, the transformed image can be analyzed on the basis of its frequency distribution. For this, the Fourier transform has become one of the most popular transform methods, since an efficient computation algorithm has been developed. It is known as the Fast Fourier transform. The discrete two-dimensional version of the Fourier transform is given by F(u ,i') = ! flx,v) e2'" I/n fl Applying this transform to an array of intensity values produces an array of complex numbers that correspond to the spatial frequency components of the image (sums of sine and cosine terms). The transformed array will contain all of the information in the original intensity image, but in a form that is more easily used to identify regions that contain different frequency components. Filtering with the Fourier transform is accomplished by setting the high (or low) values of u and i. equal to zero. For example, the value F(v.i') = F(0,0) corresponds to the zero frequency or the DC component. and higher values of u and L correspond to the high frequency components. As with intensity image arrays, thresholding of transformed arrays can be used to separate different frequency components. The original intensity image with any modifications, is recovered with the inverse transform given by 1 n I n I flx.v) = - F(u.u) exp - (xu + vv) fl 1? L Sec. 14.2 Image Transformation and Low-Level Processing 297 Another method of edge detection is model fitting. This is accomplished by locally fitting a parametric profile of edges to the image array. A model in the form of a mask is shif