 look-ahead searchtoselectanactionforthecurrentbelief
state was first examined by Satia and Lave (1973). The use of sampling at chance nodes
was explored analytically by Kearns et al. (2000) and Ng and Jordan (2000). The basic
ideas for an agent architecture using dynamic decision networks were proposed by Dean
and Kanazawa (1989a). Thebook Planning and Control by Deanand Wellman (1991) goes
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 687
into much greater depth, making connections between DBN DDN models and the classical
control literature on filtering. Tatman and Shachter (1990) showed how to apply dynamic
programming algorithms to DDN models. Russell (1998) explains various ways in which
suchagentscanbescaledupandidentifiesanumberofopenresearchissues.
The roots of game theory can be traced back to proposals made in the 17th century
by Christiaan Huygens and Gottfried Leibniz to study competitive and cooperative human
interactions scientifically and mathematically. Throughout the 19th century, several leading
economists created simple mathematical examples to analyze particular examples of com-
petitive situations. The first formal results in game theory are due to Zermelo (1913) (who
had,theyearbefore,suggestedaformofminimaxsearchforgames,albeitanincorrectone).
Emile Borel (1921) introduced the notion of a mixed strategy. John von Neumann (1928)
provedthateverytwo-person, zero-sumgamehasamaximinequilibrium inmixedstrategies
and a well-defined value. Von Neumann s collaboration with the economist Oskar Morgen-
stern led to the publication in 1944 of the Theory of Games and Economic Behavior, the
defining book for game theory. Publication of the book was delayed by the wartime paper
shortage untilamemberofthe Rockefellerfamilypersonally subsidized itspublication.
In1950,attheageof21,John Nashpublishedhisideasconcerningequilibriaingeneral
(non-zero-sum) games. Hisdefinition ofanequilibrium solution, although originating inthe
work of Cournot (1838), became known as Nash eq