of generic operators that could be easily selected. am essentially using a knowledge based approach, not caring to reinvent the wheel . The interesting idea that Korf introduced was in devising search algorithms to learn the macro operators. Thus, the operators could be learned offline, and at problem solving time, the solution would be found quite quickly. The idea of macro operators is generalized to the concepts of aggregation and chunking of information, leading to hierarchical problem solving spaces. Human beings work with such packaged information quite naturally, as illustrated by the studies in (Newell and Simon, 1972). In later chapters, we will look at both problem solving and knowledge representation in hierarchical spaces in more detail. Macro operators illustrate one prominent characteristic of the use of knowledge, which is that at problem solving time, solutions are found very quickly. But acquiring the knowledge that is useful in problem solving is an expensive pre-processing step. Thus, it would make sense to implement knowledge based problem solvers, if the knowledge acquired finds sufficient reuse. In later chapters, we will investigate the means by which problem solvers can benefit from knowledge obtained from human experts. Heuristic functions are a first step in this direction. We will also explore how to build systems that will learn from experience and improve their performance. As of now, most knowledge based systems use representations that are tailored for solving a particular class of problems. This restricts the scope of each system that is built. We will be able to think of generalized, knowledge based programs only after we are able to devise one integrated, representation mechanism common to a variety, if not all applications. These would naturally allow new kinds of algorithms to exploit a common pool of knowledge. Knowledge representation is thus still an exciting challenge in artificial intelligence. In the meantime, we will contin