les to be bound to objects. It may require attributes to have their values compared. In any case, if values that satisfy the required restrictions as imposed by the knowledge structure can be found, they are put into the appropriate places in the structure. If no appropriate values can be found, then a new structure must be selected. The way in which the attempt to instantiate this first structure failed may provide useful cues as to which one to try next. If, on the other hand, appropriate values can be found, then the current structure can be taken to be appropriate for describing the current situation. But, of course, that situation may change. Then information about what happened (for example, we walked around the room we were looking at) may be useful in selecting a new structure to describe the revised situation. As was suggested above, the process of instantiating a structure in a particular situation often does not proceed smoothly. When the process runs into a snag, though, it is often not necessary to abandon the effort and start over. Rather, there are a variety of things that can be done: Select the fragments of the current structure that do correspond to the situation and match them against candidate alternatives. Choose the best match. If the current structure was at all close to being appropriate, much of the work that has been done to build substructures to fit into it will be preserved. Make an excuse for the current structure s failure and continue to use it. For example, a proposed chair with only three legs might simply be broken. Or there might be another object in front of it which occludes one leg. Part of the structure should contain information about the features for which it is acceptable to make excuses. Also, there are general heuristics, such as the fact that a structure is more likely to be appropriate if a desired feature is missing (perhaps because it is hidden from view) than if an inappropriate feature is present. For example, a per