ntences (e.g., the pie baked and the cake baked become the pie and the cake 306 Artificial Intelligence baked ), this is only possible if the conjoined noun phrases are in the same case relation to the verb. This accounts for the fact that we do not say, Mother and the pie baked. Notice that the cases used by a case grammar describe relationships between verbs and their arguments. This contrasts with the grammatical notion of surface case. as exhibited, for example, in English, by the distinction between I (nominative case) and me (objective case). A given grammatical, or surface, case can indicate a variety of semantic, or deep, cases. There is no clear agreement on exactly what the Correct set of deep cases ought to be, but some obvious ones are the following: (A) Agent Instigator of the action (typically animate) (F) Factitive Object or being resulting from the event (L) Locative Place of the event (S) Source Place from which something tnoves (G) Goal Place to which something moves (1) Instrument--Cause of the event or object used in causing the event (typically inanimate) (D) Dative Entity affected by the action (typically animate) (B) Beneficiary Being on whose behalf the event occurred (typically animate) (T) Time Time at which the event occurred (O)} Object Entity that is acted upon or that changes, the most general case The process of parsing into a case representation is Heavily directed by the lexical entries associated with each verb. Figure 15.14 shows examples of a few such entries. Optional cases are indicated in parentheses. open OA The door opened. John opened the door. The wind opened the door. John opened the door with a chisel. die D] John died. kill DIA] Bill killed John. Bill killed John with a knife. run Al John ran. want AO] John wanted some ice cream. John wanted Mary to go to the store. Fig. 15.14 Some Verb Case Frames Languages have rules for mapping from underlying case structures to surface syntactic forms. For example, in English, the un