influential conferences that explored the new
mathematicalandcomputational modelsofcognition. Wiener sbook Cybernetics(1948)be-
CYBERNETICS
came a bestseller and awoke the public to the possibility of artificially intelligent machines.
Meanwhile, in Britain, W. Ross Ashby (Ashby, 1940) pioneered similar ideas. Ashby, Alan
Turing, Grey Walter, and others formed the Ratio Club for those who had Wiener s ideas
before Wiener s bookappeared. Ashby s Designfora Brain(1948, 1952)elaborated onhis
idea that intelligence could be created by the use of homeostatic devices containing appro-
HOMEOSTATIC
priatefeedback loopstoachievestableadaptivebehavior.
Modern control theory, especially the branch known as stochastic optimal control, has
OBJECTIVE asitsgoalthedesignofsystemsthatmaximizeanobjectivefunctionovertime. Thisroughly
FUNCTION
matches our view of AI: designing systems that behave optimally. Why, then, are AI and
control theory twodifferent fields, despite the close connections among theirfounders? The
answer lies in the close coupling between the mathematical techniques that were familiar to
theparticipantsandthecorresponding setsofproblemsthatwereencompassedineachworld
view. Calculusandmatrixalgebra,thetoolsofcontroltheory,lendthemselvestosystemsthat
aredescribablebyfixedsetsofcontinuousvariables,whereas AIwasfoundedinpartasaway
toescapefromthetheseperceivedlimitations. Thetoolsoflogicalinferenceandcomputation
allowed AIresearchers toconsider problems suchaslanguage, vision, andplanning that fell
completely outsidethecontroltheorist s purview.
1.2.8 Linguistics Howdoeslanguage relatetothought?
In 1957, B. F. Skinner published Verbal Behavior. This was a comprehensive, detailed ac-
count of the behaviorist approach to language learning, written by the foremost expert in
16 Chapter 1. Introduction
the field. But curiously, a review of the book became as well known as the book itself, and
served to almost kill off interest in behaviorism. The author of the review was the