 y) 1 (Mumbai Chennai) -(Chennai Mumbai) yoal is 3x (Culprit(x) along with the answer predicate. We first convert the premises into clat notations as before, and then add the negated goal along with the answer predicate. 1.(Culprit Tinker) V (Culprit Tailor) V (Culprit Butler) premise 2.(7 (Culprit ?x4)) V (Tall 2x4) premise 3.( 7 (Culprit 2x2) V (Dark x2) premise 4.(7 (Culprit ?x3)) V (Loc ?x3 Chennai June 10) premise 5.(Loc Tailor Mumbai June 10) premise 6.(Short Tinker) premise 7.(7 (Short x4) V (7 (Tall ?x4)) premise 8.( (Loc ?w ?x ?y)) V (2x 2?z) V ( (Loc ?w ?z ?y)) premise 9. (Mumbai Chennai) premise 0. (Chennai Mumbai) premise 1.( (Culprit ?c)) V (Answer ?c) negated eader should verify that the given information is enough to deduce that the Butler is the culprit. Hov 1 method may terminate with bindings that do not reveal anything. In fact, clauses 1 and 11 are e null clause. 2.Culprit(Tailor) V Culprit(Butler) V (Answer Tinker) 1,11, ? Tinl 3.Culprit(Butler) V Answer(Tailor) V (Answer Tinker) 12, 11, 2c Ta 4.Answer(Butler) V Answer(Tailor) V (Answer Tinker) 13, 11, 2c Bu vappens because statement 1 says that one of the three is the culprit while the negated goal says t prit. These two statements in themselves are a contradiction. Instead of choosing the general ) the reader is encouraged to try out specific goals like Culprit(Tinker) and Culprit(Butler) and verify indeed be proved. Handling Equality ok at a larger example that also deals with the equality statement. Let a database of families be the mother and father relationships expressed as functions. The other relationships are defined in parent relationship. In the interest of brevity, we choose the following predicate and function symbol ) function mother of X q) function father of X Y) predicate X is parent of Y Y) predicate X is sibling of Y (X, Y) predicate X is grandparent of Y CY) predicate X is cousin of Y re known data of the Antararashtriya family have the following parent relationships express