kumbhakaran7), ts). In the DEC, it means that the fluent fis true at time (f 1) and later. Terminates(e, f, f) Event e occurs at time t and results in the fluent f becoming false after t. In the DEC it means that the fluent f is false at time (t 1) and later. For the durative version of the action one can define the fluent to become true or false at either endpoint. For example, if the event is Walk(Home, Actor, Office) from home to office then, the fluent AtHome (Actor) becomes false (is terminated) at the start of the walk event, while the fluent AtOffice(Actor) becomes true (is initiated) at the end. Releka awt(Fory The fluent fis released from the commonsense law of inertia at time t. The commonsense law of inertia states that a fuents SHU a BR will not change unless affected - initiated or terminated by an event. f a fluent is released from the commonsense law then it can fluctuate, and one cannot deduce its state. Releasing a fluent from the commonsense law is a mechanism to deal with certain kinds of uncertainty. For example, if you toss a coin then you release the fluent Heads(Coin) from the commonsense law, and it could take any value. Releases(e, f, t) Event e occurs at time t, after which the fluent fis released from the commonsense law of inertia. Trajectory(f;, t, fo, t2) If fluent f, is initiated by an event that occurs at time t, then fluent f2 will be true at time (t, t)). This allows one to capture a causal relation between two fluents. For example, if On(Stove) is initiated by Light(Stove) at t, then the fluent Temp(Water, SomeincreasingFn(t2)) is true at time (t, to). AntiTrajectory(f;, t,fo, t2) If fluent f, is terminated by an event that occurs at time t, then fluent f.will be true at time (t, t). With the introduction of time there arises the problem of determining the truth value of fluents over different instances of time. What is true at one moment may be false at another time. The following definitions are short forms for the equivalent for