ch order of operations is not critical. This is usually the case in physical manipulation problems, such as robot navigation on a flat plane. Suppose that a robot has the following operators: go north (N), go east (E), go south (3), and go west (W). To reach its goal. it does not matter whether the robot executes N-N-E or N-E-N. Problems, Problem Spaces, and Search 45 REALE NOREELATRIRE IRN SARIS EULESS ETE Depending on how the operators are chosen, the 8-Puzzle and the blocks world problem can also b+ corsidered partially. commutative. Both types of partially commutative production systems are significant from an implementation point of view because they tend to lead to many duplications of individual states during the search process. This is discussed further in Section 2.5. Production systems that are not partially commutative are useful for many problems in which irreversible changes occur. For example, consider the problem of determining a process to produce a desired chemical compound. The operators available include such things as Add chemical to the pot or Change the temperature to degrees. These operators may cause irreversible changes to the potion being brewed. The order in which they are performed can be very important in determining the final output. It is possible that if x is added to y, a stable compound will be formed, so later addition of z will have no effect; if z is added to y, however, a different stable compound may be formed, so later addition of x will have no effect. Nonpartially commutative production systems are less likely to produce the same node many times in the search process. When dealing with ones that describe irreversible processes, it is particularly important to make correct decisions the first time, although if the universe is predictable, planning can be used to make that less important. 2.5 ISSUES IN THE DESIGN OF SEARCH PROGRAMS Every search process can be viewed as a traversal of a tree structure in which each node represe