er to
deal withpartial information, using disjunction and negation. Propositional logic hasathird
property that is desirable in representation languages, namely, compositionality. In a com-
COMPOSITIONALITY
positional language, the meaning of asentence is a function of the meaning of its parts. For
example, the meaning of S S is related to the meanings of S and S . It
1,4 1,2 1,4 1,2
wouldbeverystrange if S meantthatthere isastench insquare 1,4 and S meant
1,4 1,2
thatthereisastenchinsquare 1,2 ,but S S meantthat Franceand Polanddrew1 1
1,4 1,2
in last week s ice hockey qualifying match. Clearly, noncompositionality makes life much
moredifficultforthereasoning system.
As we saw in Chapter 7, however, propositional logic lacks the expressive power to
concisely describe anenvironment withmanyobjects. Forexample, wewereforced towrite
aseparate ruleaboutbreezes andpitsforeachsquare, suchas
B (P P ).
1,1 1,2 2,1
In English,ontheotherhand,itseemseasyenoughtosay,onceandforall, Squaresadjacent
topitsarebreezy. Thesyntaxandsemanticsof Englishsomehowmakeitpossibletodescribe
theenvironment concisely.
8.1.1 The languageofthought
Natural languages (such as English or Spanish) are very expressive indeed. We managed to
writealmostthiswholebookinnatural language, withonlyoccasional lapsesintootherlan-
guages (including logic, mathematics, and the language of diagrams). There is a long tradi-
tioninlinguisticsandthephilosophyoflanguagethatviewsnaturallanguageasadeclarative
knowledge representation language. If we could uncover the rules for natural language, we
could use it in representation and reasoning systems and gain the benefit of the billions of
pagesthathavebeenwritteninnaturallanguage.
Themodernviewofnaturallanguageisthatitservesaasamediumforcommunication
ratherthanpurerepresentation. Whenaspeakerpoints andsays, Look! thelistenercomes
to know that, say, Superman has finally appeared over the rooftops. Yet we would not want
to say that the sentence Look! represents that fact