the same f-value? To avoid selecting the same node for deletion and expansion, SMA expands the newest best leaf and deletes the oldest worst leaf. These
coincide whenthereisonlyoneleaf,butinthatcase,thecurrentsearchtreemustbeasingle
pathfromroottoleafthatfillsallofmemory. Iftheleafisnotagoalnode,thenevenifitison
anoptimalsolutionpath,thatsolutionisnotreachablewiththeavailablememory. Therefore,
thenodecanbediscarded exactlyasifithadnosuccessors. SMA is complete if there is any reachable solution that is, if d, the depth of the
shallowest goal node, is less than the memory size (expressed in nodes). It is optimal if any
optimal solution is reachable; otherwise, it returns the best reachable solution. In practical terms,SMA isafairlyrobustchoiceforfindingoptimalsolutions,particularlywhenthestate
space is a graph, step costs are not uniform, and node generation is expensive compared to
theoverheadofmaintaining thefrontierandtheexploredset.
10 Aroughsketchappearedinthefirsteditionofthisbook.
102 Chapter 3. Solving Problemsby Searching Onveryhardproblems,however,itwilloftenbethecasethat SMA isforcedtoswitch
backandforthcontinuallyamongmanycandidatesolutionpaths,onlyasmallsubsetofwhich
canfitinmemory. (Thisresembles the problem of thrashingindisk paging systems.) Then
THRASHING
the extra time required for repeated regeneration of the same nodes means that problems that would be practically solvable by A , given unlimited memory, become intractable for SMA. That is to say, memory limitations can make a problem intractable from the point
of view of computation time. Although no current theory explains the tradeoff between time
and memory, it seems that this is an inescapable problem. The only way out is to drop the
optimality requirement.
3.5.4 Learning to search better
We have presented several fixed strategies breadth-first, greedy best-first, and so on that
have been designed by computer scientists. Could anagent learn how to search better? The
METALEVELSTATE answerisyes,