xample of flexible template matching was described in Section 10.5, Partial Matching, where the idea of a rubber mask template was introduced.) Template matching can be effective only when the search process is constrained in some way. For example, the types of scenes and permissible objects should be known in advance, thereby limiting the possible pattern-ten--plat, pairs. The use of some form of informed search can help restrict the size of the search space. HIGH-LEVEL PROCESSING Before proceeding with a discussion of the final (high-level) steps in vision processing, we shall briefly review the processing stages up to this point. We began with an image of gray-level or tristimulus color intensity values and digitized this image to obtain an array of numerical pixel values. Next, we used masks or some other transform (such as Fourier) to perform smoothing and edge enhancement operations to reduce the effects of noise and other unwanted features. This was followed by edge detection to outline and segment the image into cohernt regions. The product of this step is a primal sketch of the objects. Region splitting and/or merging, the dual of edge finding, can also be used separately or jointly with edge finding as part of the segmentation process. Histogram computations of intensity values and subsequent analyses were an important part of the segmentation process. They help, to establish threshold levels which serve as cues for object separation. Other techniques such as minimum spanning tree or dynamic programming are sometimes used in these early processing stages to aid in edge finding. Following the segmentation process, regions are analyzed and labeled with their characteristic features. The results of these final steps in intermediate-level Sec. 14.5 High-Level Processing 313 processing is a set of region descriptions (data structures). Such structures are used as the input to the final high-level image processing stage. A summary of the data structures produced