nding and intelligence or is it just that some agents and people are more intelligent and comprehending than others? Self Awareness Indian philosophy has been focused on understanding the universe and our place in the universe. The philosophers have grappled with questions of the self, consciousness, and cognition. Two of the oldest terms in Indian thought are cit and jana. The former may be referred to as consciousness and the latter as cognition. Various schools of thought have grappled with the relations between two concepts, and that of prama or knowledge. The questions asked by various systems are (Mohanty, 2000), 1. What is the ontological nature of consciousness? 2. How is cognition itself cognized? 3. Is cit intentional or not? 4. Does cognition have its own form or is it formless? Naiyayika followers have distinguished between cognition about something, and cognition about that cognition. The Vedanta of Samkara talks about the awareness of knowing something and also the awareness of ignorance. They distinguish awareness from knowledge, in that it is a cognitive act that requires an appropriate mental modification. Such awareness or witness-consciousness (sakshi-caitanya) may what we might be looking for in an intelligent machine. Juxtaposing these philosophical concerns on the process of evolution, one can see that various life forms exist at different levels of knowledge use. The simplest forms can recognize food, and go for it. The higher forms like cats and dogs have memories and knowledge about friends and foes. The cat in my neighbourhood knows the small openings it can get in from. It even knows where the milk is kept (even in a covered steel vessel). But does it have the witness-consciousness that we have? We do not know. Yet. An intelligent machine should certainly be aware of itself in an environment, and be capable of purposeful action. As of now, the purpose is imparted to it by the human user. But can it have goals of its own? How do we as human