owsisaspy;wecanwritethisas x K Spy(x),
Bond
which in modal logic means that there is an x that, in all accessible worlds, Bond knows to
beaspy. Thesecondreading isthat Bondjustknowsthatthere isatleastonespy:
K x Spy(x).
Bond
Themodallogic interpretation isthat ineach accessible worldthere isan xthat isaspy, but
itneednotbethesamexineachworld.
Now that we have a modal operator for knowledge, we can write axioms for it. First,
we can say that agents are able to draw deductions; if an agent knows P and knows that P
implies Q,thentheagentknows Q:
(K P K (P Q)) K Q.
a a a
Fromthis(and afewotherrules about logical identities) we canestablish that K (P P)
A
is a tautology; every agent knows every proposition P is either true or false. On the other
hand,(K P) (K P)isnotatautology; ingeneral, therewillbelotsofpropositions that
A A
anagentdoesnotknowtobetrueanddoesnotknowtobefalse.
It is said (going back to Plato) that knowledge is justified true belief. That is, if it is
true, if you believe it, and if you have an unassailably good reason, then you know it. That
meansthatifyouknowsomething, itmustbetrue,andwehavetheaxiom:
K P P .
a
Furthermore, logical agents should be able to introspect on their own knowledge. If they
knowsomething, thentheyknowthattheyknowit:
K P K (K P).
a a a
Wecandefinesimilaraxiomsforbelief(oftendenotedby B)andothermodalities. However,
LOGICAL one problem with the modal logic approach is that it assumes logical omniscience on the
OMNISCIENCE
part of agents. Thatis, ifan agent knows aset of axioms, then it knows allconsequences of
those axioms. Thisisonshaky ground evenforthesomewhatabstract notion ofknowledge,
butitseemsevenworseforbelief, becausebeliefhasmoreconnotation ofreferringtothings
that are physically represented in the agent, not just potentially derivable. There have been
attempts to define a form of limited rationality for agents; to say that agents believe those
assertions that can be derived with the application of no more than k reasonin