nd r3 be given or determined for use in splitting, merging. or discarding 'The number of ways in which n objects can be arranged into m groups is an cxponcnt.i I quantity. - (T) t )" When m is unknown, the number of arrangements increases as the sum of the 5_ that is. as S". F.': example when,: = 25, the number of arrangements is more than 280 Pattern Recognition Chap. 13 clusters respectively. During the clustering process, the thresholds are used to determine if a cluster should be split into two clusters, merged with other clusters or discarded (when too small). The algorithm is given with the follow,ing steps. I. Select ,n samples as seed points for initial cluster centers. This can be done by taking the first rn points, selecting random points or by taking the first m points which exceed some mutual minimum separation distance d. 2. Group each sample with its nearest cluster center. 3. After all samples have been grouped, compute new cluster centers for each group. The center can be defined as the centroid (mean value of the attribute vectors) or some similar central measure. 4. If the split threshold t1 is exceeded for any cluster, split it into two parts and recompute new cluster centers. S. If the distance between two cluster centers is less than t2, combine the clusters and recompute new cluster centers. 6. If a cluster has fewer than t3 members, discard the cluster. It is ignored for the remainder of the process. 7. Repeat steps 3 through 6 until no change occurs among cluster groupings or until some iteration limit has been exceeded. Measures for determining distances and the center location need not be based on ordered variates. They may be one of the measures described in Chapter ID (including probabilistic or fuzzy measures) or some measure of similarity between graphs, strings, and even FOPL descriptions. In any case, it is assumed each object o is described by a unique point or event in the feature space F. Up to this point we have ignored the proble