les from Chennai is cherished gift. 15 It could be argued that lower life forms like ants and birds display only (genetically) scripted behaviour. Humans however, have a more cognitive approach in which they reason about their goals and means to achieve them. 16 We use the standard description of a rule. The action here is what the rule does, not to be confused with an Action in the story that an actor does. 17 Using a discriminatory network somewhat like the Rete Net (see Chapter 6). 18 We will not divulge the ending here. The interested reader is referred to Meehan s publications. 19 Any large complex system is likely to have a flavour of both algorithms and vast amounts of diverse knowledge. For a definition of neats vs scruffies, see http: Awww.computer-dictionaryonline.org neats 20vs. 20scruffies.htm? q neats 20vs. 20scruffies 20 In particular, two negative edges do not make a positive inheritance. If Penguin:- Hexapoda and Hexapoda-7 Mammals are edges in a graph, Penguin Mammal is not a valid path. 21 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Gottfried Leibniz 22 In the mathematical notation used in some other literature, the concept AND Person Female is written as PersonuFemale (see Box 14.2). 23 Alternatively, one could only add those children to P that subsume d. In either case, each child has to be tested for subsumption exactly once. 24 One has the option of adding a node with the description d to the taxonomy. This is a design choice one has to make. The question is whether one needs a minimum number of instances to create a new concept in the taxonomy. 25 Dictionary.com, ontology, in The Free Online Dictionary of Computing. Source location: Denis Howe. http: dictionary.reference.com browse ontology. Accessed: December 14, 2009. 26 Philosphers treat Ontology as a proper noun concerned with all things that exist. The phrase an ontology is a variationintroduced in computer science pertaining to the framework associated with a particular domain. 27 http: www.w3.org T