the given problem, one would have to average the values over many problems. Best First Search is an informed search algorithm. Instead of blindly searching in a predefined manner, it inspects all candidates to determine which of them is most likely to lead to the goal. It does this by employing a heuristic function that looks at the state in the context of the goal, and evaluates it to a number that in some way represents the closeness to the goal. The heuristic functions we have seen are domain dependent. They require the user to define them. Typically, the heuristic function measures closeness by measuring similarity from some perspective. For the route map, finding the similarity is in terms of location; while for the Eight-puzzle, it is in terms of similarity of the patterns formed by the tiles. In Chapter 10 on advanced methods in planning, we will also see how domain independent heuristics functions can be devised. They will essentially solve simpler versions of the problem in such a way that the time required is significantly smaller. By solving the simpler version for all the candidates, they will be able to give an estimate as to which of the candidates is the closest to the goal. Of course, care has to be taken that the work done by the heuristic function is offset by a reduction in the number of nodes explored, so that the overall performance is better than an uninformed search. Meanwhile, there exist many interesting real problems that need to be solved, and for which heuristic functions can be devised. For many of these problems, the state representations may be quite complex. There is a need to find algorithms that are easier on space requirements. In the next few sections, we begin by looking at heuristic search algorithms that are guaranteed to have low space requirements. This will enable us to work on complex problems with large search spaces. The cost we may have to pay is in terms of completeness. While Best First Search is complete for finite sp