always uncertain about what to work on next. For this, AM also uses an agenda to schedule its tasks for further investigation. Here again, heuristics are used to control the reasoning process. The system does this by developing a numerical 'interest" factor rating for tasks which is used to determine the task's position on the agenda. Like the SOLOMON system. AM gives more strength to rules which have supportive evidence. Although both AM and SOLOMON take into account the importance of the evidence. SOLOMON differs in one respect. SOLOMON also accounts for the accuracy of the evidence just as the testimony of an eyewitness is more convincing than circumstantial evidence. AM is unable to assess accuracy as such. 6.7 SUMMARY Commonsense reasoning is nonmonotonic in nature. It requires the ability to reason with incomplete, and uncertain knowledge. Many Al systems model uncertainty with probabilities or levels of confidence and probability inference computations. 124 Probabilistic Reasoning Chap. 6 Each belief is assigned a degree of truthfulness or plausibility. Evidence is pooled through combining functions which compute a combined belief probability. Two popular approaches were considered in this chapter: the Bayesian probability method anti the Dempster-Shafer approach. The Bayesian approach depends on the use of known-prior and likely probabilities to compute conditional probabilities. The Dempster-Shafer approach on the other hand is a generalization of classical probability theory which permits the assignment of probability masses (beliefs) to all subsets of the universe and not just to the basic elements. A measure of belief for an assertion is then computed as a subinterval of 10, II, where the length of the interval measures the uncertainty. In addition to methods based on formal theories the more pragmatic ad hoc approaches to uncertain reasoning were examined. In particular, the procedures used in MYCIN which combine measures of belief and disbelief into ce