h. Therearealso
many conferences and journals devoted to specific areas, which we cover in the appropriate
chapters. The main professional societies for AI are the American Association for Artificial
Intelligence (AAAI), the ACM Special Interest Group in Artificial Intelligence (SIGART),
and the Society for Artificial Intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour (AISB). AAAI s AI
Magazine contains manytopical andtutorial articles, andits Website, aaai.org,contains
news,tutorials, andbackground information.
EXERCISES
Theseexercisesareintendedtostimulatediscussion, andsomemightbesetastermprojects.
Alternatively, preliminary attempts can be made now, and these attempts can be reviewed
afterthecompletion ofthebook.
1.1 Define in your own words: (a) intelligence, (b) artificial intelligence, (c) agent, (d)
rationality, (e)logicalreasoning.
1.2 Read Turing s original paper on AI (Turing, 1950). In the paper, he discusses several
objectionstohisproposedenterpriseandhistestforintelligence. Whichobjectionsstillcarry
weight? Are his refutations valid? Can you think of new objections arising from develop-
ments since he wrotethe paper? Inthe paper, hepredicts that, bythe year2000, acomputer
will have a 30 chance of passing a five-minute Turing Test with an unskilled interrogator.
Whatchancedoyouthinkacomputerwouldhavetoday? Inanother50years?
1.3 Arereflexactions(suchasflinchingfromahotstove)rational? Aretheyintelligent?
1.4 Suppose weextend Evans s ANALOGY program so that it can score 200 on a standard
IQtest. Wouldwethenhaveaprogram moreintelligent thanahuman? Explain.
1.5 The neural structure of the sea slug Aplysia has been widely studied (first by Nobel
Laureate Eric Kandel) because it has only about 20,000 neurons, most of them large and
easily manipulated. Assuming that the cycle time foran Aplysia neuron is roughly the same
as fora human neuron, how does the computational power, in terms of memory updates per
second, comparewiththehigh-end computerdescribed in Figure1.3?
32