inds of relations, father-child and motherchild. On this network, we can ask the following question How is Arushi related to Aeden? One can employ a two-way marker passing algorithm with activation spreading commencing at the two nodes representing Arushi and Aeden, and terminating when two markers meet or intersect.11 Activation spreading is like a parallel breadth-first search from both ends, resulting in a connection with the smallest number of links. , Beagle Woman c Company cm instance-of omy . ae - iS - Abeba ee - Polity t , sinstance-of 7757 Snoopy KL isa sg foo . risa Ss 4 5 ' : instancgZof Makes a Anahita Akanksha Adjate H J Leica Camera and ol t City part-of X instance-of .- m aunt 7 a 7 ime makes e Abigail Abhay Aeden LEYS" instance-of brother 7 x Camera-21 J possesses m FIGURE 14.8 A heterogeneous semantic network with different kinds of links. The links m and f are the mother and farmer links of Figure 12.15. Bhopal cousin Quillian s work was focused on the organization of human semantic memory, or a memory for word concepts. He was concerned with semantic memory search, or the search of relations between concepts (words). Given the two words fire and burn , his program would do a bidirectional activation spreading search to produce the answers Fire is a condition which burns or To burn is to destroy something by fire (Quillian, 1966). Quillian continued with his work to build a Teachable Language Comprehender (TLC) (Quillian, 1969). The TLC would first spread activation from the first word up to a predefined depth, and then process the next word. If the activation from the second word intersected the marks left by the first one, a connection was deemed to be found. Scott Fahlman (1980), (Fahiman et al., 1983) explored the idea of hardwired implementation of the activation spreading networks with the system NETL. The idea of a massively parallel activation spreading network has inherent appeal because our own brains can be viewed as such networks. Fahlm