ments of a subcategory relationship, but most likely we ll find a paraphrase
ofthestatementsomewhereelseinthecorpusinaformwecanuse.
22.4.5 Automated templateconstruction
Thesubcategory relationissofundamentalthatisworthwhiletohandcraftafewtemplatesto
helpidentify instances ofitoccurring innaturallanguage text. Butwhataboutthethousands
of other relations in the world? There aren t enough AI grad students in the world to create
anddebug templates forallofthem. Fortunately, itispossible tolearntemplates fromafew
examples,thenusethetemplatestolearnmoreexamples,fromwhichmoretemplatescanbe
learned,andsoon. Inoneofthefirstexperimentsofthiskind,Brin(1999)startedwithadata
setofjustfiveexamples:
( Isaac Asimov , The Robotsof Dawn )
( David Brin , Startide Rising )
( James Gleick , Chaos Makinga New Science )
( Charles Dickens , Great Expectations )
( William Shakespeare , The Comedyof Errors )
Clearlytheseareexamplesoftheauthor title relation,butthelearningsystemhadnoknowl-
edge of authors or titles. The words in these examples were used in a search over a Web
corpus, resulting in199matches. Eachmatchisdefinedasatupleofsevenstrings,
(Author, Title,Order,Prefix,Middle,Postfix,URL),
where Order is true if the author came first and false if the title came first, Middle is the
characters between theauthorandtitle, Prefixisthe 10characters before the match, Suffix is
the10characters afterthematch,and UR Listhe Webaddresswherethematchwasmade.
Given a set of matches, a simple template-generation scheme can find templates to
explainthematches. Thelanguage oftemplateswasdesigned tohaveaclosemappingtothe
matches themselves, tobeamenable toautomated learning, andtoemphasize high precision
Section22.4. Information Extraction 881
(possibly at the risk of lower recall). Each template has the same seven components as a
match. The Author and Title are regexes consisting of any characters (but beginning and
ending in letters) and constrained to have a length from half the minimum length of th