illing to accept that price. (If multiple bidders accept
the price, one is arbitrarily chosen as the winner.) More formally, the seller begins with a
price p and gradually lowers p by increments of d until at least one buyer accepts the price.
Assumingallbidders actrationally, isittruethatforarbitrarily small d,a Dutchauctionwill
alwaysresultinthebidderwiththehighestvaluefortheitemobtainingtheitem? Ifso,show
mathematically why. Ifnot,explainhowitmaybepossible forthebidderwithhighestvalue
fortheitemnottoobtainit.
17.20 Imagine anauction mechanism thatisjustlikeanascending-bid auction, except that
at the end, the winning bidder, the one who bid b , pays only b 2 rather than b .
max max max
Assuming all agents are rational, what is the expected revenue to the auctioneer for this
mechanism, comparedwithastandard ascending-bid auction?
17.21 Teams in the National Hockey League historically received 2 points for winning a
game and 0 for losing. If the game is tied, an overtime period is played; if nobody wins in
overtime, the game is a tie and each team gets 1 point. But league officials felt that teams
were playing too conservatively inovertime (to avoid aloss), and it would be more exciting
if overtime produced a winner. So in 1999 the officials experimented in mechanism design:
theruleswerechanged, giving ateam thatloses inovertime1 point, not0. Itisstill2points
forawinand1foratie.
a. Washockeyazero-sum gamebeforetherulechange? After?
b. Suppose thatatacertain timetinagame,thehometeam hasprobability pofwinning
in regulation time, probability 0.78 p of losing, and probability 0.22 of going into
overtime, where they have probability q of winning, .9 q of losing, and .1 of tying.
Giveequations fortheexpected valueforthehomeandvisiting teams.
c. Imagine that it werelegal and ethical forthetwo teamsto enterinto apact where they
agreethat theywillskate toatieinregulation time,and thenboth tryinearnest towin
in overtime. Under what conditions, in terms of p and q, would it be