DETERMINISM
semantics for HLA descriptions. The basic concept required for understanding angelic se-
ANGELICSEMANTICS
mantics is the reachable set of an HLA: given a state s, the reachable set for an HLA h,
REACHABLESET
written as REACH(s,h), is the set of states reachable by any of the HLA simplementations.
The key idea is that the agent can choose which element of the reachable set it ends up in
whenitexecutes the HLA;thus, an HL Awithmultiple refinements ismore powerful than
thesame HL Awithfewerrefinements. Wecanalsodefinethereachablesetofasequencesof
HL As. Forexample,thereachable setofasequence h ,h istheunionofallthereachable
1 2
setsobtained byapplyingh ineachstateinthereachable setofh :
2 (cid:15) 1
(cid:2)
REACH(s, h
1
,h
2 ) REACH(s,h
2
).
s(cid:3) REACH(s,h1)
Given these definitions, a high-level plan a sequence of HL As achieves the goal if its
reachable set intersects the set of goal states. (Compare this to the much stronger condition
for demonic semantics, where every member of the reachable set has to be a goal state.)
Conversely, if the reachable set doesn t intersect the goal, then the plan definitely doesn t
work. Figure11.6illustrates theseideas.
The notion of reachable sets yields a straightforward algorithm: search among high-
level plans, looking for one whose reachable set intersects the goal; once that happens, the
algorithm can commit to that abstract plan, knowing that it works, and focus on refining
the plan further. We will come back to the algorithmic issues later; first, we consider the
question ofhowtheeffects ofan HLA thereachable setforeachpossible initialstate are
represented. As with the classical action schemas of Chapter 10, we represent the changes
412 Chapter 11. Planningand Actinginthe Real World
madetoeachfluent. Thinkofafluentasastatevariable. Aprimitiveactioncanaddordelete
a variable or leave it unchanged. (With conditional effects (see Section 11.3.1) there is a
fourthpossibility: flippingavariabletoitsopposite.)
An HLA 