c processes built on habits which themselves were formerly built on other habits. And the human brain would not function without the historically developed patterns of communication between many billions of highly organized nerve cells. Only after it had stumbled upon the building blocks of life as we know it, did the natural process accelerate, eventually leading to an explosion of myriad life forms. The basic building blocks may be relatively small, but the combination of the genetic material has survived in many many different phenotypes. Genetic or evolutionary algorithms operate by recombining and transmitting information from individuals in one generation of the population to the next. Many life forms increase the chances of their survival by developing mechanisms for transmitting information amongst individuals of the same generation, creating a semiotic system. We look at a population based optimization approach, based on sharing information below. 4.7 Ant Colony Optimization Ants have received much attention due to their ability to act in a coordinated manner. A colony of ants is able to produce complex problem solving behaviour through semiotic interaction (as described in the boxes in this chapter). In particular, scientists have been impressed by their ability to find shortest paths between a food source and their nest, and being able to quickly discover new optimal paths when the world changes in some way (Goss, 1989; Beckers, 1992). This complex adaptive behaviour is achieved by a simple mechanism of leaving pheromone trails and following these trails. Successful behaviour is reinforced by the phenomenon of more ants following the trail and returning successfully (and quickly), in the process depositing more pheromone on the trail. Ants that wander off along other paths will not have this continued strengthening of their trail, and will not attract other ants. Consider a thought experiment in which two ants go off in two directions in search of food. B