o episodic memory and semantic memory. Episodic memory contains information about past personal experiences, usually stored from an autobiographical point of view. For example, acollege graduation, a wedding, or a concert may all form episodic memories. Semantic memory, on the other hand, contains facts like Birds fly. These facts are no longer connected with personal experiences. Work on modeling semantic memory began with Quillian [1969]. This model soon developed into the idea of semantic networks and from there into the other slot-and-filler structures we saw in Chapters 9 and 10. Semantic memory is especially useful in programs that understand natural language. 418 Artificial Intelligence Stilt liquids Moving liquids Wetting Flowing-1 Spreading papoddns Containment Emptying Flowing-2 = Filling (Impossible) | pauteyu05 Failing papoddnsun Fig. 19.5 Five Envisionments for Lazy, Bulk Liquids Models for episodic memory grew out of research on scripts. Recall that a script is a stereotyped sequence of events, such as those involved in going to the dentist. One obvious question to ask is: How are scripts acquired? Surely they are acquired through personal experience. But a particular experience often includes details that we do not want to include in a script. For example, just because we once saw The New Yorker magazine in a dentist's waiting room, that doesn t mean that The New Yorker should be part of the dentist script. The problem is that if a script contains too many details, it will not be matched and retrieved correctly when new, similar situations arise. In general, it is difficult to know which script to retrieve (as we discussed in Section 4.3.5). One reason for this is that scripts are too monolithic. It is hard to do any kind of partial matching. It is also hard to modify a script. More recent work reduces scripts to individual scenes, which can be shared across multiple structures. Stereotypical sequences of scenes are strung together into memory organiz