s largely because of the difficulties encountered in acquiring large numbers of reliable probabilities related to the given domain and to the complexities of the ensuing calculations. But, in bypassing the formal approaches-one should question what end results can be expected. Are they poorer than would be obtained using formal methods? The answer to this question seems to be not likely. Sensitivity analyses (Buchanan et al.. 1984) seem to indicate that the Outcomes are not too sensitive to either the method nor the actual values used for many systems. However, much work remains to be done in this area before a useful theory can be formulated. 122 Probabilistic Reasoning Chap. 6 6.6 HEURISTIC REASONING METHODS The approaches to uncertainty described so far seem o lack an Al flavor. The uncertainty in a given hypothesis is represented as a number which is combined with and compared to other numbers until final number is translated into a weighted conclusion. Once the uncertainties have been translated into numbers, the cause of the uncertainty, its relative importance, necessity, and other factors are lost. Furthermore, this does not appear to be the process with which humans reason about uncertainty. Although we do weigh 'evidence both pro and con, we usually do not 'arrive at a net numeric estimate of a conclusion, only whether or not the conclusion is justified. In place of numbers, our reasoning appears to depend more on heuristics when reasoning with uncertain, incomplete knowledge. In this section we briefly consider this type of approach., Heuristic methods are based on the use of procedures, rules, and other forms of encoded knowledge to achieve specified goals under uncertainty. Using both domain specific and general heuristics, one of several alternative conclusions may be chosen through the strength of positive versus negative evidence presented in the form of justifications or endorsements. The endorsement weights employed in such systems need-not be nume