out, for example, the constituent, manager the key, in the sentence, I gave the apartment manager the key. Number agreement, which keeps trial run from being interpreted as a sentence in The first trial run was a failure. Case agreement, which rules, out, for example, the constituent, me and Susan gave one to Bob, in the sentence, Mike gave the program to Alan and me and Susan gave one to Bob. Semantic processing contributes an additional set of constraints derived from the knowledge it has about entities that can exist in the world. It imposes constraints such as: e Specific kinds of actions involve specific classes of participants. We thus rule out the baseball field meaning of the word diamond in the sentence, John saw Susan s diamond shimmering from across the room. e Objects have properties that can take on values from a limited set. We thus rule out Bill s mixer as a component of the cake in the sentence, John made a huge wedding cake with Bill s mixer. 330 Artificial Intelligence EE TE Discourse processing contributes a further set of constraints that arise from the structure of coherent discourses. These include: The entities involved in the sentence must either have been introduced explicitly or they must be related to entities that were. Thus the word it in the discourse John had a cold, Bill caught it, must refer to John s cold. This constraint can propagate through other constraints. For example, in this case, it can be used to determine the meaning of the word caught in this discourse, in contrast to its meaning in the discourse, John threw the ball. Bill caught it. The overall discourse must be coherent. Thus, in the discourse, I needed to deposit some money, so I went down to the bank, we would choose the financial institution reading of bank over the river bank teading. This requirement can even cause a later sentence to impose a constraint on the interpretation of an earlier one, as in the discourse, I went down to the bank. The river had just flood