killing infected cells. If the inflammation does not succeed in eliminating the pathogen, the second line of defence viz. the aptive imune sytem, is triggered. This process however could take several days to produce armed effector cells. The production of such cells or antibodies is a specific immune system response and is termed as the Adaptive Immune Response. 24.5 THE ADAPTIVE IMMUNE SYSTEM THE SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE Once this system is triggered, the antibodies are produced only in response to specific infections. The presence of these antibodies is a direct indication of the kind of infections the body is exposed to. If the same antigen stimulus repeats, these antibodies are able to cope up with the infection thereby preventing the establishment of the disease within the body. Cells of the adaptive immune system thus exhibit a kind of immune memory and tend to improve their attack on the specific antigen on every encounter. Lymphocytes play the most significant role in the second line of defence by performing the job of both recognition and elimination of the antigens. They are activated by interactions with antigenic material that in turn result in the generation of the immune memory. This could happen after either a vaccination or exposure to a disease. The larger lymphocytes are formed of the Natural Killer (NK) Cells. These cells destroy infected cells rather than those that cause the infection without being instigated. The smaller lymphocytes mainly constitute of the Tand B-cells, both of which have highly specific antigenic receptors on their surfaces. 24.5.1 T-Cells Antigen Antigen Presenting Cells (APCs) are MHC | Peptide basically macrophages that circulate protein throughout the body and aid in the process of ingesting and digesting antigens. The antigen is fragmented into antigenic APC peptides"? which later bind to molecules of the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) to form complexes. These complexes located at the surface of the , ; APC are the