on forthedevelopmentofthegeneraltheories ofuncertainreasoning
andrationaldecisions thatwepresent inthisandsubsequent chapters.
13.1.1 Summarizing uncertainty
Let s consider an example of uncertain reasoning: diagnosing a dental patient s toothache.
Diagnosis whether for medicine, automobile repair, or whatever almost always involves
uncertainty. Letustrytowriterulesfordentaldiagnosisusingpropositional logic,sothatwe
canseehowthelogicalapproach breaksdown. Considerthefollowingsimplerule:
Toothache Cavity .
The problem is that this rule is wrong. Not all patients with toothaches have cavities; some
ofthemhavegumdisease, anabscess, oroneofseveralotherproblems:
Toothache Cavity Gum Problem Abscess...
Unfortunately, in order to make the rule true, we have to add an almost unlimited list of
possible problems. Wecouldtryturningtheruleintoacausalrule:
Cavity Toothache .
But this rule is not right either; not all cavities cause pain. The only way to fix the rule
is to make it logically exhaustive: to augment the left-hand side with all the qualifications
required for a cavity to cause a toothache. Trying to use logic to cope with a domain like
medicaldiagnosis thusfailsforthreemainreasons: Laziness: It is too much work to list the complete set of antecedents or consequents
LAZINESS
neededtoensureanexceptionless ruleandtoohardtousesuchrules.
THEORETICAL Theoreticalignorance: Medicalsciencehasnocompletetheoryforthedomain.
IGNORANCE
PRACTICAL Practical ignorance: Even if we know all the rules, we might be uncertain about a
IGNORANCE
particularpatientbecausenotallthenecessary testshave beenorcanberun.
The connection between toothaches and cavities is just not a logical consequence in either
direction. This is typical of the medical domain, as well as most other judgmental domains:
law,business,design,automobilerepair,gardening,dating,andsoon. Theagent sknowledge
482 Chapter 13. Quantifying Uncertainty
can at best provide only a degree of belief in the relevant sentences. Our mai