mayalready haveafewkeywords)withadditional appropriate keywords.
In the most straightforward version of this task, we have a set of correctly tagged ex-
ample images, and we wish to tag some test images. This problem is sometimes known as
auto-annotation. Themostaccurate solutions areobtained using nearest-neighbors methods.
One finds the training images that are closest tothe test image in a feature space metric that
istrained usingexamples, thenreportstheirtags.
Another version of the problem involves predicting which tags to attach to which re-
gionsinatestimage. Herewedonotknowwhichregionsproducedwhichtagsforthetrain-
ingdata. Wecanuseaversionofexpectationmaximizationtoguessaninitialcorrespondence
between textandregions, andfrom thatestimate abetterdecomposition into regions, andso
on.
24.6.2 Reconstruction from many views
Binocular stereopsis works because for each point we have four measurements constraining
three unknown degrees of freedom. The four measurements are the (x,y) positions of the
pointineachview,andtheunknowndegreesoffreedomarethe(x,y,z)coordinatevaluesof
thepointinthescene. Thisrathercrudeargumentsuggests, correctly,thattherearegeometric
constraints thatpreventmostpairsofpointsfrombeingacceptablematches. Manyimagesof
asetofpointsshouldrevealtheirpositions unambiguously.
We don t always need a second picture to get a second view of a set of points. If we
believe the original set of points comes from a familiar rigid 3D object, then wemight have
Section24.6. Using Vision 963
anobject modelavailable asasource ofinformation. Ifthis objectmodelconsists ofasetof
3Dpointsorofasetofpictures oftheobject, andifwecanestablish pointcorrespondences,
wecandeterminetheparametersofthecamerathatproducedthepointsintheoriginalimage.
This is very powerful information. We could use it to evaluate our original hypothesis that
the points come from an object model. We do this by using some points to determine the
parameters of the camera, then projecting model points i