hancing human capabilities, rather than as independent, autonomous agents [Hill, 1989]. Artificial Intelligence Describe three different ways of combining speech recognition with a natural language understanding system. Compare and contrast them in terms of expected performance and ease of implementation. . Say each of the following phrases very slowly, and write down the sounds you use. Then gradually speed up, and continue to write down the sounds. Finally, say them the way you wouid in ordinary speech. How do the sounds change as you move through each series? What are the implications of these changes for continuous speech recognition? (a) could you (b) boy s school (c) the store, the elevator (d) sharp point {e) stop it (f) want to go Create a search graph, labeled with heuristic estimates, that shows the RTA* algorithm entering the same node twice. Explain what would happen if RTA* did not keep track of previously visited states. . In Section 21.1, we said that the RTA* algorithm is guaranteed to find a path to a solution state if such a path exists and if every part of the search space is accessible from every other part. Why is this second qualification necessary? Give an example in which, without it, a solution will not be found. . Consider the following variation on the peg-in-hole problem: Explain, using the concept of a strong pre-image, why this problem is easier than the standard peginhole problem of Fig. 21.10. CHAPTER FUZZY LOGIC SYSTEMS 1 never came upon any of my discoveries through the process of rational thinking. Albert Einstein (1879-1955), German-born theoretical physicist 22.1 INTRODUCTION A large amount of data can constitute a proportionately large amount of information. But this comes with a level of uncertainty, As we come to know more, we also know how much we do not know and our awareness of the concept of complexity seems to increase. We tend to forego some precise data and allow uncertainty to creep into our perception. This is when we