(1) the plan used, (2) its intended effect, (3) why it failed, and (4) how to avoid or recover from that type of failure. The TAU for the closing the barn door adage is represented as (Dyer, 1983), TAU-POST-HOC (1) x has a preservation goal G active, since enablement condition C is unsatisfied. (2) x knows a plan P that will keep G from failing by satisfying C (3) x does not execute P and G fails. X attempts to recover from the failure of G by executing P. P fails since P is effective for C, but not in recovering from G's failure. (4) In the future, x must execute P when G is active and C is not satisfied. REASONING IPTs ACEs BELIEFs EVENTs SCRIPTs RELs AFFECTS GOALs IP-UNITs aS mors fo ) SCENARIOs RTs SETTINGs FIGURE 14.19 Knowledge interactions and dependencies between knowledge structures in BORIS (Dyer, 1983). Another example of a TAU is when someone does something inadvertently to upset a friend and does something to make up for it. TAU-REG-MISTAKE x (the schlemiel) causes an unintended event E E motivates a preservation goal G on the part of y (the schlimazel) If x and y have a positive interpersonal relationship Then x is motivated to serve as an agent for y in recovering G Associated with TAUs are AFFECT related expectations that talk of emotional responses of people. In this example, the expectations are, If x and y have a positive interpersonal relationship then x will feel regret, guilty, embarrassment, etc. y will feel upset and angry at x. Dyer reports that the above TAU is applied by BORIS on the following passage: Richard spilled a cup of coffee on Paul. Paul seemed very annoyed by this so Richard offered to drive him home for a change of clothes. An AFFECT is a knowledge structure to capture the emotional responses of people to the outcomes of plans. An AFFECT has six basic constituents. 1. STATE Characterizes the nature of the sentiment and can be positive (POS) or negative (NEG). 2. CHAR Identifies the actor in the narrative who is feeling the emot