pens in a store or what are pickles used for. They define what one would normally expect the sentences to pertain to. It is possible however that the inferences do not correspond to what is really happening. For example, Arvalan could have been a detective investigating a crime, or a robot being tested in the real world. But the most likely scenario is that Arvalan is a shopper going in to buy a jar of pickles. And it makes economical sense to quickly being able to arrive at such inferences towards understanding the sentences. Roger Schank and Robert Abelson proposed that knowledge of stereotypical patterns of activity is packaged into structures called Scripts (Schank and Abelson, 1977), (Schank and Riesbeck, 1981). A Script is a structure that captures the pattern of activity, and like a theatre or a movie script, has roles and props. The Script lists out all the actions that are expected to happen in the situation. Thus, when a Script is invoked, it generates expectations (see also Chapter 13) of what events or actions will happen. For example, in a shopping Script, the main roles are of the customer and the shopkeeper, and the props include the shop, the counter with the cash register, and the merchandise. The events that one expects include the customer asking for something, or surveying shelves for some things, picking objects and possibly loading them in a basket, and checking out at the counter by paying the requisite amount of money via a card or in cash. Figure 14.11 illustrates the structure of a shopping Script. The Script is made up of a sequence of episodes with possible branches in the flow of events. In the figure, each episode is described in English and with a semiformal statement of the main conceptualization in the episode (drawn in the style in (Schank and Riesbeck, 1981)). The conceptualizations are expressed in Conceptual Dependency. The variables with an prefix are either roles or props. El: Customer enters shop MI: Customer PTRANSS to inside