e,thereby in-
creasingtheirownchancesofreplication. Mostimportantisthefactthatthegenes
themselves encode the mechanisms whereby the genome is reproduced and trans-
lated into an organism. In genetic algorithms, those mechanisms are a separate
programthatisnotrepresented withinthestrings beingmanipulated.
Darwinian evolution may appear inefficient, having generated blindly some
1045 or so organisms without improving its search heuristics one iota. Fifty
yearsbefore Darwin,however,theotherwisegreat Frenchnaturalist Jean Lamarck
(1809) proposed a theory of evolution whereby traits acquired by adaptation dur-
ing an organism s lifetime would be passed on to its offspring. Such a process
would be effective but does not seem to occur in nature. Much later, James Bald-
win(1896)proposedasuperficiallysimilartheory: thatbehaviorlearnedduringan
organism slifetimecouldacceleratetherateofevolution. Unlike Lamarck s,Bald-
win stheoryisentirelyconsistentwith Darwinianevolutionbecauseitreliesonse-
lection pressures operating onindividuals that have found local optimaamong the
set of possible behaviors allowed by their genetic makeup. Computer simulations
confirm that the Baldwin effect is real, once ordinary evolution has created
organismswhoseinternal performance measurecorrelates withactualfitness.
Section4.2. Local Searchin Continuous Spaces 131
originatedinthe17thcentury,afterthedevelopmentofcalculusby Newtonand Leibniz.6 We
findusesforthesetechniquesatseveralplacesinthebook,includingthechaptersonlearning,
vision, androbotics.
We begin with an example. Suppose we want to place three new airports anywhere
in Romania, such that the sum of squared distances from each city on the map (Figure 3.2)
to its nearest airport is minimized. The state space is then defined by the coordinates of
the airports: (x ,y ), (x ,y ), and (x ,y ). This is a six-dimensional space; we also say
1 1 2 2 3 3
that states are defined by six variables. (In general, states are defined by an n-dimensional
VA