 top-down or a bottomup approach. A top-down parser begins by hypothesizing a sentence (the symbol S) znd successively predicting lower level constituents until individual preterminal symbols are written. These are then replaced by the input sentence words which match the terminal categories For example, a possible top-down parse of the sentence Kathy jumped the horse" would be given by SNP VP NAME VP . Kathy VP - Kathy V NP Kathy jumped NP Kathy jumped ART N - Kathy jumped the N Kathy jumped the horse A bottom-up parse, on the other hand, begins with the actual words appearing in the sentence and is, therefore, data driven. A possible bottom-up parse of the same sentence might proceed as follows. 244 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 Kathy jumped the horse - NAME jumped the horse -'. NAME V the horse - NAME V ART horse - NAME V ART N NP V ART N -. NP V NP -. NP VP 3'S Words in the input sentence are replaced with their syntactic categories and those in turn are replaced by constitutents of the same or smaller size until S has been rewritten or until failure occurs. Deterministic versus Nondeterministi C Parsers Parsers may also be classified as deterministic or nondeterministic depending on the parsing strategy employed. A deterministic parser permits only one choice (arc) for each word category Thus, each arc will have a different test condition. Consequently, if an inc Orrec test choice is accepted from some state, the parse will fail since the parser cannot backtrack to an alternative choice. This may occur, for example, when a word satisfies more than one category such as a noun and a verb or an adjective, noun, and verb. Clearly, in deterministic parsers, care must be taken to make correct test choices at each stage of the parsing. This can be facilitated with a look-ahead feature which checks the categories of one or more subsequent words in the input sentence before deciding in which category to place the current word. Some researchers prefer to use deter