arty frame that describes the cleaning up activity and the excitement of opening the presents. There may be activity the day after as well, for example sending thank you notes. 1 Figure 14.6 below shows a part of the Birthday party frame system. The descriptions of the games involved and the time needed for them, the food menus, the cake types, and decoration details have been left out for want of space in the figure. (Person (:ls-A Homo-Sapien) (-Birthdate Instance-Property) (:Father Male-Human) (:Mother Female-Human) food Yes) penditure Compute-for-Instance) (Birthday-party ' (Guest :Is-A Person) (Is-A Party) ( on) (For B day, ol iend B day-kid) (:Name Get from le Person -birthday) cds-of-B day-kid 5 is-Ol ay-t t (:Post-events PostEvents) (Preparation i eee a birthday -10)) -the-party Person-birthday) n-up Dishes) pen Presents) ext Day-Afier) a (Day-After ve ReturnGifts) (Date: (Person-birthday 1)) Choose-Music ) (Send ao you-notes) i FIGURE 14.6 A part of the birthday party frame system. Such a frame-based representation could be augmented with procedures that carry information from one frame to another when it gets generated. Information can be conveyed in both the eager mode and in the lazy mode. In the eager or data-driven mode, a procedure with an If-Added test is triggered when a filler is added to a slot or modified. For example, when an instance of a birthday party is being created, as soon the kid s birthday is entered, the date could be propagated to various frames that have a slot for that date. The lazy or goal-driven could have procedures invoked by an f-Needed trigger. Such a procedure could pull in data from different frames. For example, if one needs to compute how much expenses will be incurred then a procedure could traverse frames containing expense related information and sum it up. Such a frame system could then serve as a kind of an active hierarchical spreadsheet-cum-calendar that could help one plan a party meticulously, and generate calend