t is possible for Athreat to happen before A;. If all the three happen then we say that the threat has materialized. To eliminate the threat, one needs to ensure that at least one of the three conditions for the threat is not met. This can be done by the following: 1. Separation Ensure that P and Q cannot unify. This can be done by adding an appropriate binding constraint to the set B in the partial plan. 2. Promotion Promote the action Athreat to happen before it can disrupt the causal link. That is, insert an ordering link (Athreat Aj) into the partial plan (add it to set O). 3. Demotion Demote the action to happen after both the causal link actions. That is, add an ordering link (A Athreat) to the set O in the partial plan. Figure 7.16 shows an example of a threat. Assume that at some stage there is a partial plan with two actions pickup(A) and stack(B, ?Y). Of the many open conditions, let the algorithm choose clear(A) and insert a new action unstack(?X, A) in the plan establishing the causal link (unstack(?X, A), clear(A), pickup(A)). At this point, one can notice that the existing action stack(B, 7Y) is a threat to the newly established causal link, because produces -clear(?Y), and if ? Yis bound to A then it could possibly disrupt the link. To resolve this threat, one the of three methods described above can be chosen. They are given below: 1. Separation Ensure that clear(?Y) and clear(A) cannot unify. This can be done by adding the binding constraint (? Y A) to the set B in the partial plan. holding(B) clear(?Y) 4 stack(B, ?Y) a . 4 ; AE on(B, ?Y) elear(?Y) pickup(A) sontable(A) holding(A) AE Orderi ering Sate Tinks nil Figure 7.16 The action stack(B, ?Y) is a threat to the causal link for the proposition clear(A) produced by unstack(?X, A) and consumed by pickup(A). 2. Promotion Promote the action stack(B, ?Y). Insert an ordering link (stack(B, ?Y) unstack(?X, A) into the partial plan. 3. Demotion Demote the action stack(B, ?Y) to happen after the causal li