the structural description of the object(s) .This structural description was then provided as input to the learning program. An example of such a structural description for the House of Fig. 17.2 is shown in Fig. 17.3{a). Node A represents the entire structure, which is composed of two parts: node B, a Wedge, and node C, a Brick. Figures 17.3(b) and 17.3(c) show descriptions of the two Arch structures of Fig. 17.2. These descriptions are identical except for the types of the objects on the top; one is a Brick while the other is a Wedge. Notice that the two supporting objects are related not only by /eft-of and right-of links, but also by a does-not-marry link, which says that the two objects do not marry. Two objects marry if they have faces that touch and they have a common edge. The marry relation is critical in the definition of an Arch. It is the difference between the first arch structure and the near miss arch structure shown in Fig. 17.2. The basic approach that Winston s program took to the problem of concept formation can be described as follows: 1. Begin with a structural description of one known instance of the concept. Call that description the concept definition. Learning 357 A st <a is <G B supported-by Cc lise isa Wedge Brick {a) A A S| > o> wy ie Oy a Sy Y < Y < OF 2 8 e. by aot) c Sty v by aco c Sty < j Ore, is Qe a 00 isa Con, Zu [ise Cas 8B Brick D 8B Wedge D js left-of a i left-of j. isa right-of isa isa right-of jis Brick does-not-marry Brick Brick does-not-marry Brick ) Fig. 17.3. Structural Descriptions (c) 2. Examine descriptions of other known instances of the concept. Generalize the definition to include them. 3. Examine descriptions of near misses of the concept. Restrict the definition to exclude these. Steps 2 and 3 of this procedure can be interleaved. Steps 2 and 3 of this procedure rely heavily on a comparison process by which similarities and differences between structures can be detected. This process must function in much the same 