r than real time speeds. A product of this research were several systems including HEARSAY I and II, HARPY, and HWIM. While the systems were only moderately successful in achieving their goals, the research produced other important byproducts as well, particularly in systems architectures, and in the knowledge gained regarding control. The HEARSAY system was important for its introduction of the blackboard architecture (Chapter 15). This architecture is based on the cooperative efforts of several specialist knowledge components communicating by way of a blackboard in the solution of a class of problems. The specialists are each expert in a different area. For example, speech analysis experts might each deal with a different level of the speech problem. The solution process is opportunistic, with each expert making a contribution when it can. The solution to a given problem is developed as a data structure on the blackboard. As the solution is developed, this data structure is modified by the contributing expert. A description of the systems developed under Sti R is given in Barr and Feigenbaum (1981). 13.5 SUMMARY Pattern recognition systems are used to identify or classify objects on the basis of their attribute and attribute-relation values. Recognition may be .ccomplished with decision functions or structural grammars. The decision functions as well as the grammars may be deterministic, probabilistic, or fuzzy. Before recognition can be accomplished, a system must learn the criteria for object recognition. Learning may be accomplished by direct designer encoding, supervised learning, or unsupervised learning. When unsupervised learning is re Chap. 13 Exercises 283 quired. some form of clustering may be performed to learn the object class characteristics. Speech understanding first requires recognition of basic speech patterns. These patterns are matched against lexicon patterns for recognition. Basic speech Units such as phonemes are the building blocks for longe