 concept. Consistent classification rule. This is a rule that is true for all positive instances and false for all negative instances. Induction. lnduc Oon is this process of class formation. Here we are more interested in the formation of classes which are goal-oriented; therefore, we will define induction as purposeful class formation. To illustrate, from our earlier example, we concluded that all Scotsmen are tough negotiators. Forming this concept can be helpful when dealing with any Scot. The goal or purpose here is in the simplification of our decisions when found in such situations. Sec. 18.4 Generalization and Specialization 385 o, 1/02 V03 Va 0 V02 O Vo Figure 18.1 Lattice of object classes. Each node represents a disjunction of objects from a universe of four objects; Selective induction. In this form of induction class descriptions are formed using only the attributes and relations which appear in the positive instances. Constructive induction. This form of induction creates new descriptors not found in any of the instances. Expedient Induction. This is the application of efficient, efficacious inductive learning methods which have some scope, methods which span more than a single domain. The combined performance in efficiency, efficac y, and scope has been termed the inductive power of a system (Rendell, 1985). In this chapter we are primarily interested in learners which exhibit expedient induction. Our reason for this concern will become more apparent when we examine the complexity involved in locating a targt concept, even in a small universe. Consider, for example, the difficulty in locating a single concept class in a universe consisting of only four objects. Since the universe of all dichotomous Sets (the concept C and U-C) containing n-objects can be represented as a lattice structure having 2" nodes, we see that this is an exponential search problem (Figure 18.1):. 18.4 GENERALIZATION AND SPECIALIZATION In this section we consider some techniques