 vast integrated network incorporating different kinds of knowledge, and views parsing as a process of activation, and change, of this memory. Every sentence that the listener hears leaves the memory in a changed state. 14.5.2 Goals, Plans and Actions Scripts are patterns of stereotypical activity. They help a listener whether human or machine tie up sequences of sentences together into a coherent story. We can understand the first two sentences in the restaurant story because ordering food is part of the restaurant script. The actors in a story matching a script (are expected to) do what the script says they do. Understanding of sequences of sentences is successful matching with the pattern that is the script. The connections between the sentences are defined by the script. However, script based understanding does not give us any insights into why the actors are doing what they do. For that, we need to represent connections that track the intentions that lead to the actions of actors. Consider the following sequences of sentences. A. Akimi was feeling hungry. She reached out for the phone. B. Anandan wanted to get rich quick. He decided to join politics. Now it would be difficult to imagine scripts catering to these sentences. There might well be a stereotyped sequence of activities that results in satisfying hunger, but there might be too many of them'5, and the argument is the same for getting rich quickly. On the other hand, we should recognize that some sentences talk about goals, some describe plans, while others describe actions. We need to establish connections between the goals and the plans and the actions. For example, Akimi might be about to order some fast food, or ask a friend for going out, or even call up home to announce her impending arrival. Without being able to make such connections, there is no way one could have connected the two sentences. What we need is knowledge of how goals, plans and actions are related. This is what the theory of goals 