riables of the constraint network include state and actions, and the constraints between them are represented as in EUROPA (described below). Ls) 10.7.3 CAIP EUROPA Complex systems like spacecraft, rovers and underwater vehicles are made up of different components; each of which does a different task. The components may constrain each other in various ways, and this interaction needs to be taken care of during planning. A plan is the output of a planning system that influences the behaviour produced by the executive. In a sense, plans determine the behaviour of the system. However, in the context of real world agents, it is important that this behaviour specification by the planner is not precise and rigid. It must leave enough room for the executive to fine tune the behaviour to the actual conditions. The systems described in this section achieve this by representing plans as constraint networks, instead of a sequence of actions that the executive must execute. During execution, the executive interprets the plan represented as a constraint network, choosing consistent values best suited for the actual situation. Once it makes a decision for a value, it needs to propagate constraints (see Chapter 9) to maintain consistency of the plan (network) as execution progresses. The Constraint based Attribute and Interval Planning (CA P) paradigm (Frank and Jonsson, 2003) is an approach that facilitates the specification of complex planning domains and implementation of planners that can exploit constraint based reasoning. The CA P paradigm builds upon the RA planner which was derived from the HSTS planner (Muscettola, 1994), and the planner IxTet (Laborie and Ghallab, 1995), both of which are based on attributes to represent state variables. The framework has been implemented in a system called Extensible Universal Remote Operations Planning Architecture (EUROPA), the latest at the time of writing being EUROPA2.1 developed in 2007. The most important difference between the S