 nn 2 2 Figure 17.3 A two-move Ioo Iheam J 2 sequence. state K (maximum = 4). By looking ahead three moves, the system can be assured it can do no worse than this minimax value. The board state and the corresponding minimax value for a three-move-ahead sequence are stored in Samuel's system. These values are then available for subsequent use when the same state is encountered during a new game. The lock ahead search process could be extended beyond three moves; however, the combinatorial explosion that results makes this infeasible. But, when many board states have been learned, it is likely that any given state will already have look-ahead values for three moves, and some of those moves will in turn have lock-ahead values stored. Consequently, as more and more values are stored, lookahead values for six, nine, or even more moves may be prerecorded for rapid use. Thus, when the system has played many games and recorded thousands of moves, its ability to look ahead many moves and to show improved performance is greatly increased. The value of a board state is estimated by computing a linear function similar to the perceptron linear decision function. In this case, however, Samuel selected some 16 board features from a larger set of feature parameters. The features ere typically checkers concepts such as piece advantage., the number of kings and single piece units, and the location of pieces. In the original system, the weighting parameters were fixed. In subsunt experments, however, the parameters were adjusted as part of the learning process much like the wcightiilg parameters were in the perceptr Ons. 372 Early Work in Machine Learning Chap. 17 17.4 LEARNING AUTOMATA The theory of learning automata was first introduced in 1961 (Tsetlin. 1961). Since that time these systems have been studied intensely, both analvtidally and through simulations (Lakshmivarahan. 1981). Learning automata systems are finite state adaptive systems which interact iteratively with a genera