h
timestep,multipleblipsmayappearonthescreen,butthereisnodirectobservationofwhich
blips at timet belong to which blips at timet 1. Figure 15.19(a) shows a simple example
with two blips pertime step forfive steps. Let the two blip locations at time t be e1 and e2.
t t
(Thelabelingofblipswithinatimestepas 1 and 2 iscompletelyarbitraryandcarriesno
information.) Letusassume,forthetimebeing,thatexactlytwoaircraft, Aand B,generated
theblips; theirtrue positions are XA and XB. Just tokeep things simple, we ll alsoassume
t t
that the each aircraft moves independently according to a known transition model e.g., a
linear Gaussianmodelasusedinthe Kalmanfilter(Section15.4).
Suppose we try to write down the overall probability model for this scenario, just as
we did for general temporal processes in Equation (15.3) on page 569. As usual, the joint
distribution factorsintocontributions foreachtimestep asfollows:
P(x A ,x B ,e1 ,e2 ) 0:t 0:t 1:t 1:t
(cid:25)t
P(x A)P(x B) P(x A x A )P(x B x B )P(e1,e2 x A,x B). (15.24)
0 0 i i 1 i i 1 i i i i
i 1
Wewould like tofactor the observation term P(e1,e2 x A,x B)into aproduct oftwoterms,
i i i i
one for each object, but this would require knowing which observation was generated by
whichobject. Instead, wehavetosumoverallpossible waysofassociating theobservations
Section15.6. Keeping Trackof Many Objects 601
with the objects. Some of those ways are shown in Figure 15.19(b c); in general, for n
objectsand T timesteps,thereare (n!)T waysofdoingit anawfullylargenumber.
Mathematically speaking, the way of associating the observations with the objects is a collection of unobserved random variable that identify the source of each observation.
We llwrite todenote theone-to-one mappingfromobjects toobservations attimet,with
t (A) and (B) denoting the specific observations (1 or 2) that assigns to A and B.
t t t
(For n objects, will have n! possible values; here, n! 2.) Because the labels 1 ad
t 2 on the observations are assigned arbitrarily, the p