supervised. In the supervised case, learning is performed by repeatedly presenting the network with an input pattern and a desired output response. The training examples then consist of the vector pairs (x,y'), where x is the input pattern and y' is the desired output response pattern. The weights are then adjusted until the difference between the actual output response y and the desired response y' are the same, that is until y' is near zero. D = y - One of the simpler supervised learning algorithms uses the following formula to adjust the weights W. Wfl W = Wok, + a * D Ix X '2 where 0 < a < I is a learning constant that determines the rate of learning. When the difference D is large, the adjustment to the weights W is large, but when the output response y is close to the target response y' the adjustment will be small. When the difference D is near zero, the training process terminates at which point the network will produce the correct response for the given input patterns x. In unsupervised learning, the training examples Consist of the input vectors x only. No desired response y' is available to guide the system. Instead, the learning process must find the weights w,, with no knowledge of the desired output response. We leave the unsupervised learning description until Chapter IS where learning is, covered in somewhat more detail. A neural net expert system. An example of a simple neural network diagnostic expert system has been described by Stephen Gallant (1988). This system diagnoses and recommends treatments for acute sarcophagal disease. The system is illustrated in Figure 15.10. From six symptom variables u,, u,, - , u6, one of two possible diseases can be diagnosed, u7 or u. From the resultant diagnosis, one of three treatments, i, u 0, or u1 I can then be recommended. When a given symptom is present, the corresponding variable is given a value 346 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 gr Swollen Red Hair Dizziness Sensitive Placibin feet ears loss aret