les given above is the most efficient ? What is the required orc Ss? siven the database (on A B), (on B C), (on C D), (on E F), (on F G), (on G H), (color A blue), (color B green), (color C blue), (color D yellow), (color E brown), (color F white), (color G yellow), (color H green) vat the following sentence is true using backward chain with your choice of rules ir s problem. 3 x Sy (above x y) A (color x green) A (color y yellow) solve the above problem using the resolution refutation method. 3iven the following, Vx y SomeP(someF(x), y) SomeP(x, y) lomain containing only the constant A and the function someF which of the followir ve using the resolution method? SomeP(A, A) SomeP(A, A) our derivation steps. What does you answer imply for the soundness and complet esolution method for FOL? 3iven a database of Parent(parent, child) statements write an efficient Prolog like program to answer 2ry Ancestor(ancestor, descendant) for a country where every family has exactly one child. Assume 1 juments to the query are constants from the domain. What is the worst case complexity of executing gram? xpress the following sentences in FOL. onest politician has given a promise he keeps the promise. If a party has given a 2, and a person is a leader of the party, then that means the person has given the 2. If a person keeps his promise, and he is the leader of a party then the party kee 2. If a person is the leader of a party then the person is a politician. Party BCD n 2 P1 . IBCD did not keep the promise P1 . The leader of party UBCD is KMS . son. following predicate schema P(x) x is a person, LoP(x, y) x is the leader of party y, H(x) s is hok st"'PtiG9 x is a politician, GiveP(x, y) x gives promise y, KeepP(x, y) x keeps promise y. how that the following set of formulas is unsatisfiable. Vx (Bird(x) D Flies(x)) Vx (Penguin(x) Bird(x)) n(peppy) Flies(peppy) show that the following set of formulas is unsatisfiable. V x (Bird(x) D Flies(x)) Wx (Penguin(x) Bird(x)) 3 x (Penguin(x