human world championship, far
exceeding theexpectations ofmanyhumanexperts.
Thereare several reasons why GIB plays atexpert level with Monte Carlosimulation,
whereas Kriegspiel programs donot. First, GIB s evaluation ofthe fully observable version
ofthegameisexact,searching thefullgametree, while Kriegspiel programs relyoninexact
heuristics. But far more important is the fact that in bridge, most of the uncertainty in the
partially observable information comesfromtherandomness ofthedeal,notfromtheadver-
sarial play of the opponent. Monte Carlo simulation handles randomness well, but does not
alwayshandlestrategy well,especially whenthestrategy involves thevalueofinformation.
Scrabble: Mostpeoplethinkthehardpartabout Scrabbleiscomingupwithgoodwords,but
SCRABBLE
giventheofficialdictionary, itturnsouttoberathereasytoprogramamovegeneratortofind
the highest-scoring move (Gordon, 1994). That doesn t mean the game is solved, however:
merely taking the top-scoring move each turn results in a good but not expert player. The
problem is that Scrabble is both partially observable and stochastic: you don t know what
letters the other player has or what letters you will draw next. So playing Scrabble well
combines the difficulties of backgammon and bridge. Nevertheless, in 2006, the QUACKLE
program defeatedtheformerworldchampion, David Boys,3 2.
5.8 ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES
Because calculating optimal decisions in games is intractable in most cases, all algorithms
must make some assumptions and approximations. The standard approach, based on mini-
max,evaluationfunctions, andalpha beta, isjustonewaytodothis. Probablybecauseithas
188 Chapter 5. Adversarial Search
MAX
MIN 99 100
99 1000 1000 1000 100 101 102 100
Figure5.14 Atwo-plygametreeforwhichheuristicminimaxmaymakeanerror.
been worked on for so long, the standard approach dominates other methods in tournament
play. Some believe that this has caused game playing to become divorced from the main-
stream of AIresearch: thestandard 