likelihood, we do not move around formulas when we talk and think. But this is merely a way to create models that might help explain some aspects of the behaviour, and contribute to building useful computer programs. One could go into finer and finer level of detail to try and represent things more and more accurately. For example might want to say that came to realize that Kasparov is brilliant after saw his game against Anand, and since then believe that he is brilliant. This could possibly be represented as in Figure 13.11. Observe that we are still taking liberties by using actions like Play Chess , and states like brilliant but that should not take away anything from the basic idea. We could have tried to model the process in greater detail by introducing movement to the GR.andthemto IM and then to LTM, and also introduce an instrumental act of ATTEND(eye) in the event of watching the match, and we couk Dane GreeshtemPora detail as well, in the manner of Event Calculus studied earlier in this chapter. But this would have led to an explosion in representation, which would have led us away from our concern with studying knowledge representation. The fact that such an explosion can happen is perhaps a reason why this kind of knowledge representation and reasoning faded away in the eighties in the last century. Perhaps one is waiting for a couple of significant breakthroughs in representation and advances in knowledge acquisition before we see a resurgence of such knowledge intensive semantic processing. Kasparov Anand POSS-BY cP 1 MTRANS 2 ft Match Ve VAN Play Chess es Kasparov 1 MBUILD - AN brilliant Kasparov 1 conc 2 AN brilliant Kasparov POSS-BY SS 5 LociM) a brilliant FIGURE 13.11 The conceptualization for I came to realize that Kasparov is brilliant, after saw his game against Anand. Many verbs from a natural language are in fact not conceptual actions, but represent causal connections resulting in state change. Schank called them state change verbs. Consider