be constructed, and, because of the structural connections that must exist between the syntactic structure and the semantic one, it also provides a way of selecting among competing syntactic analyses. Semantic processing can impose constraints because it has access to knowledge about what makes sense in the world. We already mentioned one example of this, the sentence, *Is the glass jar peanut butter? There are other examples in the rest of this section. Lexical Processing The first step in any sernantic processing system is to look up the individual words in a dictionary (or /exicon) and extract their meanings. Unfortunately, many words have several meanings, and it may not be possible to choose the correct one just by looking at the word itself. For example, the word diamond might have the following set of meanings: e A geometrical shape with four equal sides e A baseball field An extremely hard and valuable gemstone To select the correct meaning for the word diamond in the sentence, Joan saw Susan s diamond shimmering from across the room. it is necessary to know that neither geometrical shapes nor baseball fields shimmer, whereas gemstones do. Unfortunately, if we view English understanding as mapping from English words into objects in a specific knowledge base, lexical ambiguity is often greater than it seems in everyday English. For, example, consider the word mean. This word is ambiguous in at least three ways: it can be a verb meaning to signify ; it can be an adjective meaning unpleasant or cheap ; and it can be a noun meaning statistical average. But now imagine that we have a knowledge base that describes a statistics program and its operation. There might be at least two distinct objects in that knowledge base, both of which correspond to the statistical average meaning of mean. One object is the statistical concept of a mean; the other is the particular function that computes the mean in this program. To understand the word mean we need to map it into s