 source document. However, several interesting MT applications have been built and used commercially (Nilsson, 2010); often humans are involved in post-editing the machine generated output to improve its quality. In countries like India where a very small fraction of population can understand English, one of the particularly impressive applications of MT is in rendering the vast amount of material available on the Web to local languages (see also (Khemani, 2012)). There are two broad schemes in MT systems. In Direct MT, a separate translator is built for each pair of source and target languages. In contrast, the interlingua based approach is founded on the idea of an intermediate language. Translators are built that convert text in a given language to the intermediate language, and vice versa. Given any source and target language pair, the source language text is first rendered into the intermediate language, which in turn is converted to the target. When compared to the direct approach, the interlingua based approach clearly cuts down on the number of translators that need to be built, so that any of n given languages can be translated to any other. The concept of interlingua is also reminiscent of Chomsky s idea of a deep level structure shared by all languages. There are several challenges in the way of developing successful MT systems. For one, we need to take into account differing word order in source and target languages. NLP techniques like Word Sense Disambiguation, anaphora resolution, and resolution of ambiguities also play important roles. Two important directions in the development of MT systems are Rule Based MT and Corpus Based MT. The latter has gained prominence in recent years, primarily because of the state-of-theart performances obtained using significantly lower knowledge acquisition overheads. Rule-based translation systems parse the text in source language to produce an internal representation which is then transferred to the target language a