Advances in Computer Chess, starting with Clarke
(1977). Volume 134 of the journal Artificial Intelligence (2002) contains descriptions of
state-of-the-art programs forchess, Othello, Hex, shogi, Go, backgammon, poker, Scrabble,
andothergames. Since1998,abiennial Computersand Gamesconference hasbeenheld.
EXERCISES
5.1 Suppose you have an oracle, OM(s), that correctly predicts the opponent s move in
any state. Using this, formulate the definition of a game as a (single-agent) search problem.
Describeanalgorithm forfindingtheoptimalmove.
5.2 Considertheproblem ofsolvingtwo8-puzzles.
a. Giveacompleteproblem formulation inthestyleof Chapter 3.
b. Howlargeisthereachable statespace? Giveanexactnumericalexpression.
c. Suppose wemake the problem adversarial as follows: the two players take turns mov-
ing;acoinisflippedtodeterminethepuzzleonwhichtomakeamoveinthatturn;and
the winner is the first to solve one puzzle. Which algorithm can be used to choose a
moveinthissetting?
d. Giveaninformalproofthatsomeonewilleventuallywinifbothplayperfectly.
196 Chapter 5. Adversarial Search
e
(a) a b c d
P E
f
bd
cd ad
(b)
ce cf cc ae af ac
? ? ? ? ?
de df
dd dd
Figure5.16 (a)Amapwherethecostofeveryedgeis1.Initiallythepursuer P isatnode
bandtheevader E isatnoded. (b)Apartialgametreeforthismap. Eachnodeislabeled
withthe P,E positions.P movesfirst. Branchesmarked ? haveyettobeexplored.
5.3 Imagine that, in Exercise 3.3, oneof thefriends wantstoavoid the other. Theproblem
then becomes a two-player pursuit evasion game. We assume now that the players take
PURSUIT EVASION
turns moving. The game ends only when the players are on the same node; the terminal
payoff tothepursuer isminusthe totaltimetaken. (Theevader wins byneverlosing.) An
exampleisshownin Figure5.16.
a. Copythegametreeandmarkthevaluesoftheterminalnodes.
b. Next to each internal node, write the strongest fact you can infer about its value (a
number,oneormoreinequalities suchas 14 ,ora ? ).
c. Beneatheachquestion mark,writethenameof