ample, in the study of the behavior of gases, some variables are p, the pressure on the gas, V, the volume of the gas, 7, the arnount of gas in moles, and 7; the temperature of the gas. Physicists have long known a law, called the ideal gas law, that relates these variables. BACON is able to derive this law on its own. First, BACON holds the variables n and 7 constant, performing experiments at different pressures p,, pz, and p;. BACON notices that as the pressure increases, the volume V decreases. Therefore, it creates a theoretical term p V. This term is constant. BACON systematically moves on to vary the other variables. It tries an experiment with different values of 7 and finds that p V changes. The two terms are linearly related with an intercept of 0, so BACON creates a new term p V/T. Finally, BACON varies the term n and finds another linear relation between n and p V/T. For all values of 1, p, , and 7, p VMT = 8.32. This is, in fact, the ideal gas law. Fig. 17.18 shows BACON s reasoning in a tabular format. Fig. 17.18 BACON Discovering the Ideal Gas Law BACON has been used to discover a wide variety of scientific laws, such as Kepler s third law, Ohm s law, the conservation of momentum, and Joule s law. The heuristics BACON uses to discover the ideal gas law include noting constancies, finding linear relations, and defining theoretical terms. Other heuristics allow BACON to postulate intrinsic properties of objects and to reason by analogy. For example, if BACON finds aregularity in one set of parameters, it will attempt to generate the same regularity in a similar set of parameters. Since BACON s discovery procedure is state-space search, these heuristics allow it to reach solutions while visiting only a small portion of the search space. In the gas example, BACON comes up with the ideal gas law using a minimal number of experiments. A better understanding of the science of scientific discovery may lead one day to programs that display true creativity. Muc