ics for FOPL 57 Constants, variables, and functions are referred to as terms, and predicates are referred to as atomic formulas or atoms for short. Furthermore, when we want to refer to an atom or its negation, we often use the word literal. In addition to the above symbols, left and right parentheses, square brackets, braces, and the period are used for punctuation in symbolic expressions. As an example of theabove concepts, suppose we wish to represent the following statements ,in symbolic form. El: All employees earning $1400 or more per year pay taxes. E2: Some employees are sick today. E3: No employee earns more than the president. To represent such expressions in FOPL, we must define abbreviations for the predicates and functions. We might, for example, define the following E(x) for x is an employee. P(x) for x is president. i(x) lot the income of x (lower case denotes a function). GE(u.v) for u is greaser than or equal to v. S(x) for x is sick today. 1(x) for x pays taxes. Using the above abbreviations, we can represent El, E2, and E3 as El': Yx ft E(x) & GE(i(x),1400)) -. T(x)) E2':3y (E(y) -. Sty)) E3':'Vxy (CEIx) & P(y)) .- 'GE(i(x).i(y))) In the above, we read El' as "for all x if x is an employee and the income of x is greater than or equal to $1400 then .r pays taxes." More naturally, we read El' as El, that is as "all employees earning $1400 or more per year pay taxes." E2' is read as "there is an employee and the employee is sick today" or "some employee is sick today." E3' reads "for all x and for all y if .r is an employee and. y is president, the income of x is not greater than or equal to the income of y." Again, more naturally, we read E3' as, "no employee earns more than the president." The expressions El'. E2', and E3' are known as well-formed formulas or wffc (pronounced woofs) for short. Clearly, all of the wffs used above would be more meaningful if full names were used rather than abbreviations. Wffs are defined recursively as follows: - An