eing able to make such connections, there is no way one could have connected the two sentences. What we need is knowledge of how goals, plans and actions are related. This is what the theory of goals and plans expounds (Schank and Abelson, 1977), (Wilensky, 1981; 1983). People rarely act randomly. Usually their actions are part of some plan. If you know what the plan is then you can understand the action. For example, if one is executing a plan for getting food from a restaurant, a constituent action may be to call them to order food. Then reaching out for the phone can be understood as an action that is part of that plan. Or if you perceive the school bully walking towards you in a menacing manner, you can infer that he has a plan of snatching your new toy truck. Thus, actions can be fitted into a story, if they are part of known plans. Plans, on the other hand, are usually devised to achieve some goals. If a child has a plan for reaching up to the cookie jar, it must be because he has a goal of getting hold of a cookie. Goals, like getting hold of a cookie, themselves may be part of higher level plans, which in turn may be part of higher level goals. The actions of the child can be explained by the fact that the goal of getting hold of a cookie is part of the plan of eating it, to achieve the goal of eating a cookie, which is a part of a plan to do something to satisfy hunger, which is to achieve the goal of satisfying hunger. Figure 14.15 illustrates this idea with two other sentences. 1. Balaji needed moncy to buy a music system. 2. He called his sister. mm: 1 tool 4 plan Ask sister lo borrow money Get in touch with sister sub-plan Use the phone to ask her an F 4 ree 1 FIGURE 14.15 The goal plan relations sitting behind an action. Given lines 1 and 2, an astute listener might make the connections as shown. The task of understanding stories can then be seen as finding the connections between sentences. Sometimes, as in the above figure for example, the story begi