ooking for local improvements. Hill Climbing, the simplest of perturbation search algorithms, does precisely this, and stops when it cannot find a better candidate. Local perturbation search methods are also known as neighbourhood search algorithms, because they only search in the neighbourhood of the current node. Hill Climbing has a termination criterion in which the algorithm terminates when a better neighbour cannot be found. We have already observed that in doing so, it has converted a searching for goal problem into optimization of the heuristic function problem. The optimization community refers to the function being optimized as the objective function. While focusing on the optimization problem, we will adopt this term. Box 3.1: The SAT Problem Consider a Boolean formula made up of a set of propositional variables V a, b, c, d, e, ... (see Chapter 12, propositional logic). For example, F ((a V - ) A ( V -c)) (- V -d) Each of the propositional variables can take up one of two values: true or false, known as truth values, and also referred to by 1 and 0, or T and F. Given an assignment true orfalse to each variable in the formula, the formula F acquires a truth value that is dictated by the structure of the formula and the logic connectives used. The problem of satisfiability, referred to as the SAT problem, is to determine whether there exists an assignment of truth values to the constituent variables that make the formula true. The formula F given above can be made true by the assignment a true, c true, d false, e false amongst others. Very often SAT problems are studied in the Conjunctive Normal Form in which the formula is expressed as a conjunction of clauses, where each clause is a disjunction of literals, and each literal is a proposition or its negation. The reader should verify that the CNF version of the above formula has only one clause with 4 literals. F (-a V -c V -d V -8 ) SAT is one of the earliest problems to be proven NP-complete (Cook, 1971).