domain, including all the
constants, functions, andpredicates mentionedinthechapter.
8.17 Explain what is wrong with the following proposed definition of adjacent squares in
thewumpusworld: x,y Adjacent( x,y , x 1,y ) Adjacent( x,y , x,y 1 ).
8.18 Write out the axioms required for reasoning about the wumpus s location, using a
constant symbol Wumpus and a binary predicate At(Wumpus,Location). Remember that
thereisonlyonewumpus.
8.19 Assuming predicates Parent(p,q) and Female(p) and constants Joan and Kevin,
withtheobviousmeanings, expresseachofthefollowingsentences infirst-orderlogic. (You
mayusetheabbreviation 1 tomean thereexistsexactlyone. )
a. Joanhasadaughter(possibly morethanone,andpossibly sonsaswell).
b. Joanhasexactlyonedaughter(butmayhavesonsaswell).
c. Joanhasexactlyonechild,adaughter.
d. Joanand Kevinhaveexactlyonechildtogether.
e. Joanhasatleastonechildwith Kevin,andnochildren withanyoneelse.
Exercises 319
8.20 Arithmetic assertions can be written in first-order logic with the predicate symbol ,
the function symbols and , and theconstant symbols 0and 1. Additional predicates can
alsobedefinedwithbiconditionals.
a. Representtheproperty xisanevennumber. b. Representtheproperty xisprime. c. Goldbach s conjecture is the conjecture (unproven as yet) that every even number is
equaltothesumoftwoprimes. Representthisconjecture asa logicalsentence.
8.21 In Chapter6,weusedequalitytoindicatetherelationbetweenavariableanditsvalue.
For instance, we wrote WA red to mean that Western Australia is colored red. Repre-
senting this in first-order logic, we must write more verbosely Color Of(WA) red. What
incorrectinferencecouldbedrawnifwewrotesentencessuchas WA red directlyaslogical
assertions?
8.22 Write in first-order logic the assertion that every key and at least one of every pair of
sockswilleventuallybelostforever,usingonlythefollowingvocabulary: Key(x),xisakey;
Sock(x), x is a sock; Pair(x,y), x and y are a pair; Now, the current time; Before(t ,t ),
1 2
timet com