en determined through the network, diagnostic conclusions are inferred using classification tables that interpret patterns of the causal network. These tables are similar to rule interpretations. The CASNET system was never used much beyond the initial research stage. At the time, physicians were reluctant to use computer systems in spite of performance tests in which CASNET scored well. Frame Architectures Frame representations vere described in Chapter 7. Frames are structured sets of closely related knowledge, such as an object or concept name, the object's main attributes and their corresponding values, anti possibly some attached procodurs (if-needed, if-added, if-removed procedures). The attribute. .s. and procedures are stored in specified slots and slot facets of the frame. Individual frames are usually linked together as a network much like the nodes in an associative network. Thus, frames may have many of the features of associative networks, namely, property inheritance and default reasoning. Several expert systems have been constructed with frame architectures, and a number of building tools which create and manipulate frame structured systems have been developed. .. example of a frame-based system is the PIP system (Present Illness Program) developed at M.I.T. during the late 1970s and 1980s (Szolovits and Pauker. 1978). This system was used to diagnose patients using low cost, easily obtained information, the type of information obtained by a general practitioner during an office examination. The medical knowledge in PIP is organized in frame structures, where each frame is composed of categories of slots with names such as Typical findings Logical decision criteria Complimentary relations to other frames Differential diagnosis Scoring The patient findings are matched against frames, and when a close match is found, a trigger status occurs. A trigger is a finding that is so strongly related to a disorder that the system regards it as an active hypothes