re convinced of their positions, and functionalists are convinced only that axiom 3 is
unsupported, or that in general Searle s argument is unconvincing. The argument stirs up
combatants, but has done little to change anyone s opinion. Searle remains undeterred, and
has recently started calling the Chinese Room a refutation ofstrong AI rather than just an argument (Snell,2008).
Eventhosewhoaccept axiom 3,andthus accept Searle s argument, haveonly theirin-
tuitionstofallbackonwhendecidingwhatentitiesareminds. Theargumentpurportstoshow
thatthe Chinese Roomisnotamindbyvirtueofrunningtheprogram,buttheargumentsays
nothing about how to decide whether the room (ora computer, some other type of machine,
oranalien)isamindbyvirtueofsomeotherreason. Searlehimselfsaysthatsomemachines
do have minds: humans are biological machines with minds. According to Searle, human
brains may or may not be running something like an AI program, but if they are, that is not
the reason they are minds. It takes more to make a mind according to Searle, something
equivalent tothecausal powersof individual neurons. What these powersare isleftunspec-
ified. Itshould benoted, however, that neurons evolved to fulfill functional roles creatures
Section26.2. Strong AI:Can Machines Really Think? 1033
withneuronswerelearninganddecidinglongbeforeconsciousness appearedonthescene. It
wouldbearemarkable coincidence ifsuchneurons justhappened togenerate consciousness
because of some causal powers that are irrelevant to their functional capabilities; after all, it
isthefunctional capabilities thatdictate survivaloftheorganism.
In the case of the Chinese Room, Searle relies on intuition, not proof: just look at the
room; what s there to be a mind? But one could make the same argument about the brain:
just look at this collection of cells (or of atoms), blindly operating according to the laws of
biochemistry(orofphysics) what stheretobeamind? Whycanahunkofbrainbeamind
whileahunkoflivercannot? Thatremainsthegreatmy