s
that the same brain state could not correspond toa fundamentally distinct mental state, such
astheknowledge thatoneiseatingabanana.
The simplicity of this view is challenged by some simple thought experiments. Imag-
ine, if you will, that your brain was removed from your body at birth and placed in a mar-
velouslyengineered vat. Thevatsustainsyourbrain,allowingittogrowanddevelop. Atthe
sametime,electronic signalsarefedtoyourbrainfromacomputersimulation ofanentirely
fictitious world, and motor signals from your brain are intercepted and used to modify the
simulation as appropriate.2 In fact, the simulated life you live replicates exactly the life you
would have lived, had your brain not been placed in the vat, including simulated eating of
simulatedhamburgers. Thus,youcouldhaveabrainstateidenticaltothatofsomeonewhois
really eating areal hamburger, but it would be literally false to say that you have the mental
state knowing that one is eating a hamburger. You aren t eating a hamburger, you have
neverevenexperienced ahamburger, andyoucouldnot,therefore, havesuchamentalstate.
Thisexampleseemstocontradicttheviewthatbrainstatesdeterminementalstates. One
waytoresolvethedilemmaistosaythatthecontentofmentalstatescanbeinterpreted from
two different points of view. The wide content view interprets it from the point of view
WIDECONTENT
of an omniscient outside observer with access to the whole situation, who can distinguish
differencesintheworld. Underthisview,thecontentofmentalstatesinvolvesboththebrain
state and the environment history. Narrow content, on the other hand, considers only the
NARROWCONTENT
brainstate. Thenarrowcontentofthebrainstatesofarealhamburger-eater andabrain-in-a-
vat hamburger - eater isthesameinbothcases.
2 Thissituationmaybefamiliartothosewhohaveseenthe1999film The Matrix.
Section26.2. Strong AI:Can Machines Really Think? 1029
Widecontent isentirelyappropriate ifone sgoalsaretoascribe mentalstatestoothers
who share one s world, to predict their like