ipulation procedures. 1.5 Topics in Al Philosophers have long dwelt over the mind and the human being that possesses that mind. They have asked questions about the universe and the mind that perceives the universe. Cognitive psychologists have studied how people acquire, process and store information. They investigate human memory, perception and decision making. Linguists have studied the use of language. Cognitive neuroscientists have investigated the biological systems that make up our brains, the seat of our minds. Economists have studied rational behaviour and decision making. Mathematicians have explored formal methods and the limits of logical reasoning. The study of Artificial Intelligence can be seen to derive from all the above disciplines which can broadly be grouped under the name Cognitive Science. Except that the Al community is always focused on writing programs, whether it is to investigate and validate theories of human cognition, or it is to engineer systems for doing a particular task. The computer is a machine that allows us to represent and manipulate symbols explicitly, and symbols we believe, are the vehicles for ideas and concepts. And, as Patrick Henry Winston, professor at MIT, has observed, the computer is an ideal experimental subject, requires little care and feeding, is endlessly patient, and does not bite. Computer programming has a quality that is quite different from most other activities. A team of programmers may pore over a procedure in the minutest detail, working out the required steps painstakingly; but when it is ready, the computer program runs in a jiffy, zipping through the steps that were determined by months of analysis. Written carefully in great detail, it can be invoked without care. Once a program is done, it can be executed and replicated as often as one wants. As more and more researchers write more and more programs, the ratchet of evolution will retain the best ones; and hopefully the different modules will evolve