e to be assigned a value from its domain. Consider the map colouring CSP shown in Figure 9.22 on the left, along with two orderings (ABCDE) and (EDCBA) on the right. The domain of all the variables is r, b, g . Let us assume that algorithm for solving the CSP assigns values to the variables in the two given orders, and at each stage chooses a value consistent with the value assigned earlier to every related variable, called its parent, if any. For the order (ABCDE), the parent of Bis A, parents of E are B, C and D. Observe that for the second ordering (EDCBA), every node has only one parent. The reader is encouraged to ponder over the orderings and ask which is better. bx r g O- ) O AN : re . Y) FIGURE 9.22 A map colouring problem with the domain of all variables being r, b, g . The figures on the right show two different orderings and a possible colour assignment proceeding from left to right. As one can see, the lower ordering colours the graph automatically, but the upper one can reach a dead end. One possible assignment sequence for the order ABCDE, as shown in the figure, is, A r,B b,C r,D g However at this point, it is not possible to assign a value to E because the three parents of E have used up the three colours. The algorithm will need to backtrack and try another value for D. The reader should verify that for the order EDCBA, the assignment process goes smoothly from start to finish, and there is no need to backtrack. In fact, the solution displayed in the figure uses only two colours. The given CSP is arc consistent, and also path consistent. What is different in the two examples is the ordering of the variables. The orderings can be characterized by a property called width defined as the largest number of parents any node has in that ordering. The ordering ABCDE has width 3, while the ordering EDCBA has width 1. The width of a given graph is the minimum of the widths of all its orderings. A related property is called induced width. For a given graph, th