 case, Q R) that is shorter than the other clause. When
the unit preference strategy was first tried for propositional inference in 1964, it led to a
dramaticspeedup,makingitfeasibletoprovetheoremsthat couldnotbehandledwithoutthe
preference. Unitresolution is arestricted form of resolution in which every resolution step
must involve a unit clause. Unit resolution is incomplete in general, but complete for Horn
clauses. Unitresolution proofson Hornclauses resembleforwardchaining.
The OTTER theoremprover(Organized Techniquesfor Theorem-proving and Effective
Research, Mc Cune, 1992), uses a form of best-first search. Its heuristic function measures
the weight ofeachclause,wherelighterclausesarepreferred. Theexactchoiceofheuristic
is up to the user, but generally, the weight of a clause should be correlated with its size or
difficulty. Unitclauses aretreated aslight; thesearch can thus beseenasageneralization of
theunitpreference strategy.
Set of support: Preferences that try certain resolutions first are helpful, but in general it is
SETOFSUPPORT
moreeffectivetotrytoeliminatesomepotential resolutions altogether. Forexample,wecan
insist that every resolution step involve at least one element of a special set of clauses the
set of support. The resolvent is then added into the set of support. If the set of support is
smallrelativetothewholeknowledgebase,thesearchspace willbereduced dramatically.
We have to be careful with this approach because a bad choice for the set of support
will make the algorithm incomplete. However, if wechoose the set of support S so that the
remainder of the sentences are jointly satisfiable, then set-of-support resolution is complete.
Forexample, onecan usethenegated query asthe setofsupport, ontheassumption that the
356 Chapter 9. Inference in First-Order Logic
original knowledge base is consistent. (After all, if it is not consistent, then the fact that the
queryfollowsfromitisvacuous.) Theset-of-support strategyhastheadditionaladvantageof
gen