deal of work has gone into finding efficient algo-
rithmsforkeepingtrackofcomplexenvironments(Hamscheretal.,1992;Simon,2006). The
Remote Agentprogram(describedonpage28)thatcontrolled the Deep Space Onespacecraft
isaparticularly impressiveexample(Muscettola etal.,1998;Jonssonetal.,2000).
Goal-basedagentsarepresupposedineverythingfrom Aristotle sviewofpracticalrea-
soning to Mc Carthy s early papers on logical AI. Shakey the Robot (Fikes and Nilsson,
1971; Nilsson, 1984) was the first robotic embodiment of a logical, goal-based agent. A
full logical analysis of goal-based agents appeared in Genesereth and Nilsson (1987), and a
goal-basedprogrammingmethodologycalledagent-orientedprogrammingwasdevelopedby
Shoham (1993). The agent-based approach is now extremely popular in software engineer-
ing (Ciancarini and Wooldridge, 2001). It has also infiltrated the area of operating systems,
AUTONOMIC whereautonomiccomputingreferstocomputersystemsandnetworksthatmonitorandcon-
COMPUTING
trolthemselves withaperceive act loopandmachinelearning methods(Kephartand Chess,
2003). Noting that a collection of agent programs designed to work well together in a true
multiagentenvironmentnecessarilyexhibitsmodularity theprogramssharenointernalstate
and communicate with each other only through the environment it is common within the
MULTIAGENT field of multiagent systems to design the agent program of asingle agent as a collection of
SYSTEMS
autonomous sub-agents. In some cases, one can even prove that the resulting system gives
thesameoptimalsolutions asamonolithicdesign.
Thegoal-based viewofagentsalsodominatesthecognitivepsychology traditioninthe
area of problem solving, beginning with the enormously influential Human Problem Solv-
ing(Newelland Simon,1972)andrunningthroughallof Newell slaterwork(Newell,1990).
Goals, furtheranalyzed as desires (general) and intentions (currently pursued), arecentral to
the theory of agents developed by Bratman (1987). This theory has been influential both 