en
withinsensorrange),ormovingobstacles. Foreachcondition andeachcontroller, give
anexampleofasituation wheretherobotfails(orexplainwhyitcannotfail).
25.10 In Figure25.24(b) onpage 1001, weencountered anaugmented finitestatemachine
for the control of a single leg of a hexapod robot. In this exercise, the aim is to design an
AFSM that, when combined with six copies of the individual leg controllers, results in effi-
cient, stable locomotion. Forthispurpose, you havetoaugment theindividual legcontroller
topassmessagestoyournew AFS Mandtowaituntilothermessagesarrive. Arguewhyyour
controller is efficient, in that it does not unnecessarily waste energy (e.g., by sliding legs),
andinthatitpropels therobot atreasonably high speeds. Provethatyourcontroller satisfies
thedynamicstabilitycondition givenonpage977.
25.11 (This exercise was first devised by Michael Genesereth and Nils Nilsson. It works
for first graders through graduate students.) Humans are so adept at basic household tasks
that they often forget how complex these tasks are. In this exercise you will discover the
complexity and recapitulate the last 30 years of developments in robotics. Consider the task
ofbuilding anarchoutofthreeblocks. Simulatearobotwith fourhumansasfollows:
Brain. The Brain direct the hands in the execution of a plan to achieve the goal. The
Brain receives input from the Eyes, but cannot see the scene directly. The brain is the only
onewhoknowswhatthegoalis.
Eyes. The Eyesreportabriefdescription ofthescenetothe Brain: Thereisaredbox
standingontopofagreenbox,whichisonitsside Eyescanalsoanswerquestionsfromthe
Brain such as, Is there agap between the Left Hand and the red box? If you have a video
camera,pointitatthesceneandallowtheeyestolookattheviewfinderofthevideocamera,
butnotdirectlyatthescene.
Lefthandandrighthand. Onepersonplayseach Hand. Thetwo Handsstandnextto
each other, each wearing an oven mitt on one hand, Hands execute only simple commands
from the Brain for example, Left Hand, mov