ce Mary Kanaga (Karunya University, Coimbatore), S G Sanjeevi (NIT Warangal), Y R Ramesh (NIT Warangal), Chittranjan Hota (BITS Pilani Hyderabad Campus), S Kavitha (SSN College of Engineering, Kalavakkam), Cheng-Seen Ho (National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei), Von-Wun Soo (National Tsing Hua University, HsinChu). All the reviewers mentioned above have only seen the book in small parts. It has all come together now thanks to the publishing team. am grateful to Smruti Snigdha and her team at McGraw Hill Education (India) who provided all kinds of help and listened patiently to my opinions on the production aspects. The book you are holding owes much to them. am grateful to the IIT Madras Golden Jubilee Book Writing Scheme, which allowed me a semester of sabbatical from teaching in 2007 to write this book. had been writing for years and thought was close to finishing it then. did, as you can see, eventually complete it (complying in fact with Hofstadter s Law ). The beautiful IIT Madras campus with its banyan trees, deer and monkeys, has been a wonderful place to live and work in. should not fail to mention the enjoyable one year spent at IIT Mandi in the sylvan and scenic Beas valley, amongst the lovely people of Himachal, without which the book would have probably come out one year earlier. am grateful to many friends and family who have contributed in many ways to my book. In particular, should mention R Krishna Kumar, K S Balaji and Prakash Paranjape for urging me at all times to get on with it. Finally, owe everything to my mother, my past, and my daughter, my future. Deepak Khemani 1 Hofstadter s Law: It always takes longer than you expect, even when you take into account Hofstadter s Law. Douglas Hofstadter, G del, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid (1979). Introduction Chapter 1 The human mind is a wondrous thing. For centuries, humans have reflected upon the world we live in; looking at the sun, the moon and the stars in wonderment, o