at can create an organizational memory, system that help plan and book your travel, systems that can ferret out useful information from the World Wide Web, systems that would recommend a movie and a restaurant to you, systems that would respond to verbal commands of the user, systems that would monitor the activity of the aged and remind them of activities they need to do, systems that analyse large amounts of data and discover useful knowledge, systems that help translate from one language to another, systems that can plan the movement of rover on another planet, or an autonomous submarine in our own seas, systems that generate weather forecasts in a coherent manner, systems that help monitor the progress of neonatal babies and produce reports for anxious parents, and many others including, not least of all, systems that play with us and entertain us. The development of all these systems has taken place independently by different groups in different parts of the world. Many of these systems demonstrate the capability that would be part of a general intelligent system. It is only to be expected that with further advances, more and more capabilities will be integrated into single systems, and perhaps one day, we will have intelligent companions who behave like friends to us, giving us advice and telling us jokes, but who are not embodied in flesh and bones like us. ) e XQ Points to Ponder 1. We cannot represent the full world. We cannot sense the full world. We cannot (always) act perfectly. We cannot predict the consequences of proposed actions perfectly. How then does intelligence arise? 2. Our brains are finite, made up of tens of billions of neurons. The number of different sentences we can construct in (say) the English language is much larger. When we are faced with a new sentence we have never seen before, how do we make sense of it? 1 We must admit though that the situation is not ideal, being far better for some of us than for others. 2 See also http: www. f