cess. From the discussion in this section, it should be clear that it can more precisely be described as a process of heuristic search. Some heuristics will be used to define the control structure that guides the application of rules in the search process. Others. as we shall see, will be encoded in the rules themselves. In both cases, they will represent either general or specific world knowledge that makes the solution of hard problems feasible. This leads to another way that one could define artificial intelligence: the study of techniques for solving exponentially hard problems in polynomial time by exploiting knowledge about the problem domain. 2.3. PROBLEM CHARACTERISTICS Heuristic search is a very general method applicable to a large class of problems. It encompasses a variety of specific techniques, each of which is particularly effective for a small class of problems. In order to choose the most appropriate method (or combination of methods) for a particular problem, it is necessary to analyze the problem along several key dimensions: Is the problem decomposable into a set of (nearly) independent smaller or easier subproblems? Can solution steps be ignored or at least undone if they prove unwise? Is the problem s universe predictable? Is a good solution to the problem obvious without comparison to all other possible solutions? Is the desired solution a state of the world or a path to a state? Isa large amount of knowledge absolutely required to solve the problem, or is knowledge important only to constrain the search? e Can a computer that is simply given the problem return the solution, or will the solution of the problem require interaction between the computer and a person? In the rest of this section, we examine each of these questions in greater detail. Notice that some of these questions involve not just the statement of the problem itself but also characteristics of the solution that is desired and the circumstances under which the solution must take