theproblemof
schedulingtheassemblyofacar. Thewholejobiscomposedoftasks,andwecanmodeleach
task as avariable, where the value of each variable isthe time that the task starts, expressed
as an integer number of minutes. Constraints can assert that one task must occur before
another for example, awheel must beinstalled before the hubcap isput on and that only
so many tasks can go on at once. Constraints can also specify that a task takes a certain
amountoftimetocomplete.
Weconsiderasmallpartofthecarassembly, consisting of15 tasks: installaxles(front
and back), affix all four wheels (right and left, front and back), tighten nuts for each wheel,
affixhubcaps, andinspect thefinalassembly. Wecanrepresent thetaskswith15variables:
X Axle ,Axle ,Wheel ,Wheel ,Wheel ,Wheel ,Nuts ,
F B RF LF RB LB RF
Nuts ,Nuts ,Nuts ,Cap ,Cap ,Cap ,Cap ,Inspect .
LF RB LB RF LF RB LB
The value of each variable is the time that the task starts. Next we represent precedence
PRECEDENCE constraints between individual tasks. Whenever a task T must occur before task T , and
CONSTRAINTS 1 2
task T takesduration d tocomplete,weaddanarithmeticconstraint oftheform
1 1
T d T .
1 1 2
Section6.1. Defining Constraint Satisfaction Problems 205
In our example, the axles have to be in place before the wheels are put on, and it takes 10
minutestoinstallanaxle,sowewrite
Axle 10 Wheel ; Axle 10 Wheel ;
F RF F LF
Axle 10 Wheel ; Axle 10 Wheel .
B RB B LB
Nextwesaythat,foreachwheel,wemustaffixthewheel(whichtakes1minute),thentighten
thenuts(2minutes),andfinallyattachthehubcap(1minute,butnotrepresented yet):
Wheel 1 Nuts ; Nuts 2 Cap ;
RF RF RF RF
Wheel 1 Nuts ; Nuts 2 Cap ;
LF LF LF LF
Wheel 1 Nuts ; Nuts 2 Cap ;
RB RB RB RB
Wheel 1 Nuts ; Nuts 2 Cap .
LB LB LB LB
Supposewehavefourworkerstoinstallwheels,buttheyhavetoshareonetoolthathelpsput
DISJUNCTIVE the axle in place. We need a disjunctive constraint to say that Axle and Axle must not
CONSTRAINT F B
overlapintime;eitheronecomesfirstortheotherdoes:
(Axle 10 Axle ) 