 X ASSIGNMENT i
v ,X v ,... . Anassignment that does not violate anyconstraints iscalled aconsistent
CONSISTENT i j j
COMPLETE orlegalassignment. Acompleteassignmentisoneinwhicheveryvariable isassigned, and
ASSIGNMENT
a solution to a CSP is a consistent, complete assignment. A partial assignment is one that
SOLUTION
PARTIAL assignsvaluestoonlysomeofthevariables.
ASSIGNMENT
6.1.1 Exampleproblem: Mapcoloring
Suppose that, having tired of Romania, we are looking at a map of Australia showing each
of its states and territories (Figure 6.1(a)). We are given the task of coloring each region
either red, green, orblue in such away that no neighboring regions have the samecolor. To
formulatethisasa CSP,wedefinethevariables tobetheregions
X WA,NT,Q,NSW,V,SA,T .
The domain of each variable is the set D red,green,blue . The constraints require
i
neighboring regionstohavedistinctcolors. Sincetherearenineplaceswhereregionsborder,
therearenineconstraints:
C SA (cid:7) WA,SA (cid:7) NT,SA (cid:7) Q,SA (cid:7) NSW,SA (cid:7) V,
WA (cid:7) NT,NT (cid:7) Q,Q(cid:7) NSW,NSW (cid:7) V .
Hereweareusingabbreviations; SA (cid:7) WAisashortcutfor(cid:16)(SA,WA),SA (cid:7) WA(cid:17),where
SA (cid:7) WAcanbefullyenumerated inturnas (red,green),(red,blue),(green,red),(green,blue),(blue,red),(blue,green) .
Therearemanypossible solutions tothisproblem, suchas WA red,NT green,Q red,NSW green,V red,SA blue,T red .
It can be helpful to visualize a CSP as a constraint graph, as shown in Figure 6.1(b). The
CONSTRAINTGRAPH
nodes ofthegraph correspond tovariables oftheproblem, andalink connects anytwovari-
ablesthatparticipate inaconstraint.
Why formulate a problem as a CSP? One reason is that the CS Ps yield a natural rep-
resentation for a wide variety of problems; if you already have a CSP-solving system, it is
ofteneasiertosolveaproblemusingitthantodesignacustomsolutionusinganothersearch
technique. Inaddition, CS Psolverscanbefasterthanstate-space searchers because the CSP
solver canquickly elimin