ronment, like courses, people, departments, programs and so on, and relations between them. Rephrase the information in the form of RDF triples. . Define the category of natural numbers, NN(x) is true iff x belongs to the set of natural numbers. Hint: Look up the Web for Peano Axioms Given a number N the von Neumann definition of natural numbers constructs the next number to be taking the union of all elements of N, and N itself. What would the union of all natural numbers correspond to? Hint: Look up ordinal numbers . Write functions to convert measured values like, feet and inches cm miles and yards cm kms and metres cm Write functions to add length measurements expressed in mixed units. How does one express the following in FOL? You may ignore tense information. (a) Anish ate an apple. (b) Anish ate the apple. (c) Arnav hit the boy with a stick. (d) Arnav hit a boy with the stick. Would you represent apple as a term or a predicate for the above? How would you ensure that your representation is saying exactly what the sentence says? For example in (a) and how do you ensure your representation is true to the fact that Anish ate exactly one apple? . What would a fuzzy membership function for the category young adult look like? What about low salary , medium height , or too hot or too cold ? Given the following board position in Cross and Noughts, what was the first move made in the game? Assume that both the players are perfect (i.e. no losing move is made). Is there unique sequence of moves that with perfect play would lead to this position? (Source: http: www.geocities.com joe kisenwether Retro. html) In the event calculus example, add the fluent satiated(Person, Time). What domain axioms does one need to add to be able to deduce that (after Nikhil has eaten) satiated(nikhil53, t7) is true? . Modify the event calculus axioms EC1 to EC4 so that the effect of the event at time point t, is felt at a later time point tf). Apply the modified axioms to the example probl