ions,
anover-proportionalfeedbackisrequiredtodrivetheerrorclosertozero. Thesolutiontothis
problemliesinaddingathirdtermtothecontrollaw,basedontheintegratederrorovertime:
(cid:26) (y(t) x )
a K (y(t) x ) K (y(t) x )dt K t . (25.3)
t P t I t D t Here K isyetanothergainparameter. Theterm (y(t) x )dtcalculatestheintegralofthe
I t
error over time. The effect of this term is that long-lasting deviations between the reference
signal and the actual state are corrected. If, for example, x is smaller than y(t) for a long
t
periodoftime,thisintegralwillgrowuntiltheresulting control a forcesthiserrortoshrink.
t
Integral terms, then, ensure thatacontroller doesnotexhibitsystematic error, attheexpense
ofincreased danger ofoscillatory behavior. Acontroller withallthree terms iscalled a PID
controller (forproportional integral derivative). PI Dcontrollers arewidelyused inindustry,
PIDCONTROLLER
foravarietyofcontrolproblems.
25.6.2 Potential-fieldcontrol
We introduced potential fields as an additional cost function in robot motion planning, but
theycanalsobeusedforgenerating robotmotiondirectly, dispensing withthepathplanning
phase altogether. To achieve this, we have to define an attractive force that pulls the robot
towardsitsgoalconfiguration andarepellent potential fieldthat pushes therobot awayfrom
obstacles. Such a potential field is shown in Figure 25.23. Its single global minimum is
1000 Chapter 25. Robotics
goal start goal
start
(a) (b)
Figure 25.23 Potential field control. The robot ascends a potential field composed of
repelling forces asserted from the obstacles and an attracting force that correspondsto the
goalconfiguration.(a)Successfulpath. (b)Localoptimum.
the goal configuration, and the value is the sum of the distance to this goal configuration
and the proximity to obstacles. No planning was involved in generating the potential field
shown in the figure. Because of this, potential fields are well suited to real-time control.
Figure 25.23(a) shows a trajectory of a