 be further subdivided as follows. Nominal variables. Qualitative variables whose values or states have no order nor rank. It is only possible to distinguish equality or inequality between two Sec. 10.2 Structures Used in Matching 193 such objects. Of course each state can be given a numerical code. For example. "marital status" has states of married, single, divorced, or widowed. These states have no numerical significance, and no particular order nor rank. The states could be assigned numerical codes however, such as married = I. single = 2. divorced = 3, and widowed = 4. Ordinal variables. Qualitative variables whose states can be arranged to a rank order, but the difference between two distinct values has no significance. Ordinal variables may also be assigned numerical values. For example, the states very tall. tall, medium, short, and very short can be arranged in order from tallest to shortest and be assigned an arbitrary scale of 5 to I. However, the difference between successive values does not necessarily have any quantitative meaning. Binary variable. Qualitative discrete variables which may assume only one of two values, such as 0 or I, good or bad, yes or no, high or low. Interval (metric) variables. Quantitative variables which take on numeric values and for which equal differences between values have the same significance. For example, real numbers corresponding to temperature or integers corresponding to an amount of money are considered as interval variables. Graphs and Trees Two other structures we shall consider in this section are graphs and trees. One type of graph we are already familiar with is the associative network (Chapter 6). Such structures provide a rich variety of representation schemes. More generally, a graph G (V. E) is an ordered pair of sets V and E. The elements of V are nodes or vertices and the elements of E are a subset of V X V called edges (or arcs or links). An edge joints two distinct vertices in V. Directed graphs, or dig