tion. For example Anastasia went to Besant Nagar to book her tickets. While there, she also spent time on the beach and had her dinner at an eatery. 2. Goal Conflict When different goals of a character compete for resources. For example Ayesha wanted to go to the beach but she had to submit an assignment the next day. 3. Goal Competition An inimical relationship between the goals of different characters. For example, Ayuta wanted to watch a soccer game but Akello insisted on watching the movie. 4. Goal Concord When goals of different characters have a positive interaction. For example, Amina wanted to get rid of her iPod. She sold it to Akna who was looking for a second-hand one. Recognizing these situations enables PAM to answer questions like Why did Calvin give the truck to Moe? with Because he didn t want to get hurt. 14.5.3 Story Writing Story understanding is the task of making sense of a sequence of input sentences. PAM uses its knowledge of goals and plans to link the different sentences in the input story. Story generation can be seen as the inverse task which can work as follows. 1. Create a cast of characters. For each character, ascribe a set of planboxes for each type of goal 2. Create a set of props. 3. Create a set of goals for some of the cast. 4. Create a sequence of actions by choosing plans for each character that has a goal. Induce more goals in the process. 5. Output the final story in a natural language. One such program called TALE-SPIN was written by James Meehan from the Yale group as part of his thesis in 1976 (Meehan, 1981). TALESPIN started with an initial set of S-goals and proceeded to generate a story. The program worked in an interactive fashion, asking the user to make certain choices. For example it could start with the sentence One day Sam was very hungry . Sam, being a bear, is known to like honey, and TALE-SPIN would create a D-CONT goal for Sam, which would link to a D-KNOW goal in which Sam wants to know where some honey is. If