ionsthathideinformation
from the opponent or provide information to a partner because it assumes that they already
knowtheinformation; anditwillneverbluffinpoker,4 because itassumestheopponent can
BLUFF
seeitscards. In Chapter17, weshowhowtoconstruct algorithms thatdoallthese things by
virtueofsolving thetruepartiallyobservable decisionproblem.
4 Bluffing bettingasifone shandisgood,evenwhenit snot isacorepartofpokerstrategy.
Section5.7. State-of-the-Art Game Programs 185
5.7 STATE-OF-THE-ART GAME PROGRAMS
In 1965, the Russian mathematician Alexander Kronrod called chess the Drosophila of ar-
tificial intelligence. John Mc Carthy disagrees: whereas geneticists use fruit flies to make
discoveries that apply to biology more broadly, AI has used chess to do the equivalent of
breeding very fast fruit flies. Perhaps a better analogy is that chess is to AI as Grand Prix
motorracingistothecarindustry: state-of-the-art gameprogramsareblindingly fast,highly
optimized machines that incorporate the latest engineering advances, but they aren t much
use for doing the shopping or driving off-road. Nonetheless, racing and game-playing gen-
erate excitement and a steady stream of innovations that have been adopted by the wider
community. Inthissectionwelookatwhatittakestocomeoutontopinvariousgames.
CHESS
Chess: IBM s DEEP BLUE chess program, now retired, is well known for defeating world
champion Garry Kasparov inawidely publicized exhibition match. Deep Blueranonapar-
allel computer with 30 IBM RS 6000 processors doing alpha beta search. The unique part
was a configuration of 480 custom VLSI chess processors that performed move generation
andmoveorderingforthelastfewlevelsofthetree,andevaluatedtheleafnodes. Deep Blue
searched up to 30 billion positions per move, reaching depth 14 routinely. The key to its
success seemstohavebeen itsability togenerate singular extensions beyond thedepth limit
forsufficiently interesting lines offorcing forced moves. Insomecases thesearch reached a
d