In this section, we take a different approach and briefly consider what happens if we make fundamental changes to our idea of set membership and corresponding changes to our definitions of logical operations. The motivation for fuzzy sets is provided by the need to represent such propositions as: John is very tall. Mary is slightly ill. Sue and Linda are close friends. Exceptions to the rule are nearly impossible. Most Frenchmen are not very tall. While traditional set theory defines set membership as a boolean predicate, fuzzy set theory allows us to represent set membership as a possibility distribution, such as the ones shown in Fig. 8.4(a) for the set of tall Statistical Reasoning 185 people and the set of very tall people. Notice how this contrasts with the standard boolean definition for tal! people shown in Fig. 8.4(b). In the latter, one is either tall or not and there must be a specific height that defines the boundary. The same is true for very tall. In the former, one s tallness increases with one s height until the value of 1 is reached. Once set membership has been redefined in this way, it is possible to define a reasoning system based on techniques for combining distributions [Zadeh, 1979] (or see the papers in the journal Fuzzy Sets and Systems). Such reasoners have been applied in control systems for devices as diverse as trains and washing machines. A typical fuzzy logic control system has been described in Chapter 22. Lk AR REED IER D at SUMMARY In this chapter we have shown that Bayesian statistics provide a good basis for reasoning under various kinds of uncertainty. We have also, though, talked about its weaknesses in complex real tasks, and so we have talked about ways in which it can be modified to work in practical domains. The thing that all of these modifications have in common is that they substitute, for the huge joint probability matrix that a pure Bayesian approach requires, a more structured representation of the facts that are releva