 of extending the plan (with more actions) will terminate when the cost of adding more actions outweighs the cost of leaving preferences unsatisfied. In PDDL3.0 (Gerevini and Long, 2005), a preference is specified by the statement: (preference name GD ) The expression (is-violated name ) takes on a value of the number of distinct preferences of that name that are violated in a given plan. The naming of a preference allows one to associate different penalties with the violation of different constraints. An anonymous, or unnamed, preference is assumed to have weight equal to 1 by default. Preferences may also be included as preconditions of actions in which case the number of violations is the number of times the action is selected violating that constraint. The following is an example of preferences that one may use in planning an evening out. The descriptions shown below follow the rest of the problem specification. The goals expressed as trajectory constraints are that one should be at the beach from 6 to 8, go to a restaurant at some point, preferably a South Indian or an Ethiopian one, for dinner, also preferably go to a mall sometime, and end up at home. In addition, one should try and avoid making phone calls at all points during the outing. ( (. ) (:constraints (and (hold-during 6 8 (at beach)) (at-end (at home) ) (sometime (go restaurant) ) (preference mall (sometime (at mall))) (preference south (sometime (eat-at south-indian-restaurant) ) (preference ethiopian (sometime (eat-at ethiopian-restaurant) )) (preference quiet (always (not (making phone-call))) (:metric minimize ( ( 150 (is-violated south) ) ( 130 (is-violated ethiopia)) (is-violated mall) ( 8 (is-violated quiet)))) The statements in the :metric field assign weights to the preferences. Observe that the preferences for the two restaurants have high weights. These are designed to make sure that one of them is chosen. It also means that the other one will still be a penalty. Notice that the penalty f