be traced to
Wittgenstein (1922).
Logical state estimation, of course, requires a logical representation of the effects of
actions a key problem in AI since the late 1950s. The dominant proposal has been the sit-
uation calculusformalism (Mc Carthy, 1963), whichiscouched within first-order logic. We
discusssituationcalculus,andvariousextensionsandalternatives,in Chapters10and12. The
approach taken in this chapter using temporal indices on propositional variables is more
restrictivebuthasthebenefitofsimplicity. Thegeneralapproachembodiedinthe SATPLAN
algorithm wasproposed by Kautzand Selman (1992). Latergenerations of SATPLAN were
able to take advantage of the advances in SAT solvers, described earlier, and remain among
themosteffectivewaysofsolving difficultproblems(Kautz,2006).
The frame problem was first recognized by Mc Carthy and Hayes (1969). Many re-
searchers considered the problem unsolvable within first-order logic, and it spurred a great
deal of research into nonmonotonic logics. Philosophers from Dreyfus (1972) to Crockett
(1994) have cited the frame problem as one symptom of the inevitable failure of the entire
AI enterprise. The solution of the frame problem with successor-state axioms is due to Ray
Reiter (1991). Thielscher (1999) identifies the inferential frame problem as a separate idea
and provides a solution. In retrospect, one can see that Rosenschein s (1985) agents were
using circuits that implemented successor-state axioms, but Rosenschein did not notice that
the frame problem was thereby largely solved. Foo (2001) explains why the discrete-event
control theory models typically used by engineers do not have to explicitly deal with the
frame problem: because they are dealing with prediction and control, not with explanation
andreasoning aboutcounterfactual situations.
Modernpropositionalsolvershavewideapplicabilityinindustrialapplications. Theap-
plication ofpropositional inference inthe synthesis ofcomputer hardware isnow astandard
technique h