ves to the cognitive aspects of intelligent agents. The book is meant primarily for the first-time student, most likely in an undergraduate or even postgraduate course. But it could also be useful for a seasoned professional making a foray into this exciting field. That could be a software engineer with a desire to implement smarter programs (apps?) or a researcher from another domain keen to exploit artificial intelligence techniques in her area of activity. No background is required except familiarity with programming. Even for those who do not program themselves, the book could provide insights into software written by others. And finally, hope this book will be a part of essential reading for the budding artificial intelligence researcher. The book has evolved over a period of over twenty years of teaching artificial intelligence at IIT Madras, and is based on a set of six elective courses taught by my colleagues and me in the department Introduction to Al, Knowledge Representation and Reasoning (KRR), Planning and Constraint Satisfaction (PCS), Memory Based Reasoning in Al (MBR in Al), Natural Language Processing (NLP), and Machine Learning (ML). In fact, am privileged to have my colleague Sutanu Chakraborti who teaches NLP write Chapter 16, and Ashish Tendulkar who taught ML contribute to Chapter 18. In addition, there is material on Qualitative Reasoning, Probabilistic Reasoning and Artificial Neural Networks. The last two also have courses devoted to them. Most of the book reflects the way teach the Al related courses, and contains examples and figures designed to aid the reader in understanding concepts. The book has a narrative style, telling the story of the quest for Al, in which concepts may sometimes be expressed again in different words. have also received feedback that this reinforces the learning of concepts. The book follows a theme of building intelligent systems from scratch. We begin with general purpose search methods and gradually bring out th