model the process
DISCOVERYSYSTEM
of scientific discovery of new concepts, usually by a direct search in the space of concept
definitions. Doug Lenat s Automated Mathematician, or AM (Davis and Lenat, 1982), used
discovery heuristics expressed as expert system rules to guide its search for concepts and
conjectures in elementary number theory. Unlike most systems designed for mathematical
reasoning, AM lacked a concept of proof and could only make conjectures. It rediscovered
Goldbach s conjecture and the Unique Prime Factorization theorem. AM sarchitecture was
generalized inthe EURISK Osystem(Lenat,1983)byaddingamechanismcapable ofrewrit-
ingthe system s owndiscovery heuristics. EURISKO wasapplied inanumberofareas other
thanmathematicaldiscovery, althoughwithlesssuccessthan AM. Themethodology of AM
and EURISK Ohasbeencontroversial (Ritchieand Hanna,1984;Lenatand Brown,1984).
Anotherclassofdiscoverysystemsaimstooperate withreal scientificdatatofindnew
laws. The systems DALTON, GLAUBER, and STAHL (Langley et al., 1987) are rule-based
systems that look for quantitative relationships in experimental data from physical systems;
in each case, the system has been able to recapitulate a well-known discovery from the his-
tory of science. Discovery systems based on probabilistic techniques especially clustering
algorithms thatdiscovernewcategories are discussed in Chapter20.
Exercises 801
EXERCISES
19.1 Show, by translating into conjunctive normal form and applying resolution, that the
conclusion drawnonpage784concerning Braziliansissound.
19.2 For each of the following determinations, write down the logical representation and
explainwhythedetermination istrue(ifitis):
a. Designanddenomination determinethemassofacoin.
b. Foragivenprogram, inputdetermines output.
c. Climate,foodintake, exercise, andmetabolism determine weightgainandloss.
d. Baldnessisdetermined bythebaldness (orlackthereof)of one smaternalgrandfather.
19.3 Wouldaprobabilistic versionofdeterminations beuseful?