pplied. In the following sections, we explore each of the three avatars of CBR and look at issues of representation, similarity and retrieval. 15.1.4 Conversational CBR Conversational CBR derives its name from the focus on conversation between an agent and a user. The agent may be a helpdesk operator in a diagnosis or troubleshooting situation, while the user could be a help seeker. Given the increasing propensity for customer support, a CBR system can come in handy to support a helpdesk operator engage in a meaningful conversation with the user. Some of the earliest successful applications of CBR were in helpdesk situations (for example, the Compaq s Smart system (Acorn and Walden, 1992)). More recently, conversational CBR has also found application in recommender systems. Recommender systems are electronic commerce applications designed to help a customer choose an appropriate product. Instead of taking the requirement (or query) in one go, it is done incrementally via a series of questions. In the early systems, the questions were chosen by the agent, and used to sift through the possibilities. More recently however, there has also been work on mixed initiative systems in which both sides can choose what question to address next (see for example? (McSherry, 2002a)). This gives the user an opportunity to focus on the features she is interested in. For example, if one is looking to rent a flat, the system might start asking questions in a particular order, but you might first bring up the need for a balcony. While conversational CBR can be done with any kind of representation, the name was initially used by a representation that focused on the questions. A case in conversational CBR is a collection of questions and answers, along with a diagnosis and actions to be taken. In addition, there may be a case number and a title. The following is an example of a case in conversational CBR . Title: PC not booting Q1. Do you hear a BIOS beep code when you tum on the PC? Yes