n of actions as in Chapters 7 and 10. Rather, the notion of a plan is that of a mental state, in the sense that a plan to roast lamb is the intent to roast lamb, as opposed to a plan for roasting lamb , which may be a recipe for the goal (Bratman, 1990). That is, the agent has a plan or intention to achieve the goal of having roasted lamb. If for a given goal G, an agent has a plan l (a4, 9, ..., An) for achieving the goal then the agent also has the belief that the actions a1, a, ..., anthat make up the plan will eventually lead to the achievement of G (Pollack, 1990). Matters become complex when the world is dynamic. Time and change complicate the rational process. This may happen because change is a part of the world. Like the day and night cycles we are used to, or the changing weather, seasons, our growing bodies, and many other phenomena in the natural world. The world is changing also because of the actions of other agents. This changing world has myriad ramifications. Firstly, the plans we generate may not remain correct because something has changed in the period in which we planned and commenced execution. You may have set out for a bicycle ride, only to find a flat tyre. You may have to modify the plan or devise a new one. Secondly, the intentions (goals) we chose earlier may no longer be relevant because something has changed. For example, you had the intention of buying a loaf of bread, but on reaching the bakery you spot a piece of pizza that you decide is a better snack. Thus, new desires may arise as things change in the world. Thirdly, an agent needs to keep revising its beliefs in a changing world, and how often it does so may critically depend upon the intentions it is pursuing. If you are flying a kite, you may need to keep a close watch on the wind and other kites. If you are playing a game of tennis then you need to keep an eye on the ball at all times. On the other hand, if you are playing a game of bridge, you only need to look out for the ne