e the following (Vaidya et al, 2009), k1: karta: central to the action of the verb k2: karma: the one most desired by the karta k3: karana: instrument which is essential for the action to take place k4: sampradaan: recipient of the action k5: apaadaan: movement away from a source k7: adhikarana: location of the action Of these the first two must be present for a sentence to be complete (and grammatically correct) and the others are optional. Thus karakas mark the role of a constituent in a conceptualization, and often have a direct relation to the role markers or vibhaktis. In some sense the vibhaktis are like indices to the kind of rules that EL would employ to find proper fillers for a slot in a conceptualization. Languages with explicit role markers are often free word order languages since the grammar,dges. got impose an ordering on the clauses. 13.7.3 Word Phrases Words in a sentence seldom stand alone for something. Usually they embellish or are embellished by other words and together they form a phrase that stands for something. Linguistics identifies such groups as verb phrases or noun phrases. Since phrases introduce a hierarchical structure into the sentence, and also the underlying conceptualization, they have to be dealt with in a special manner. For the top level sentence it would be nice if the phrase as a whole was available. But reading or processing words in a sentence happens sequentially, and understanding or parsing the phrase is a sub-task in itself. A bottom up approach would incrementally move up the hierarchical structure, putting together smaller components to form larger ones. Parsing a sentence has to be a judicious mix of top down and bottom up processing. In the example we saw of ELI, this was achieved to some extent by storing partially built constituents in the C-list. But one still needs to be careful as demonstrated in the processing of noun phrases in the heuristics proposed by Gershman (1977). The basic idea that Gersham proposed w