n omitted in the Interest of presenting a more readable example.) The schedule Arrival method sends a message to the Ship class to create a new ship and then adds the event block [self ship Arrival: new Shipl to the pending event list at the arrival time value. The process Event method is activated from the proceed method in the Simulator class. It initiates evaluation of the event block stored in the pending list, prints a ship arrival message. and computes the new total for the cargo discharged. Next, we define the class Ship. Class ship Iship Sizel new ship Size = ship D.stnbuti On next ship Size - ship Size With the object classes defined, we can now write the statements For the three object events. The arrival event is initiated from the Harhor Operation class. This event then schedules the next operation (docking), which in turn schedules the ship departure event. ship Arrival: ship (remaining Berths > 0) if True: jremaining Berths : remaining Berths -- 1. self add Event: [self ship Docking: ship! at: (self time + docking Oistribution next)l. if False: l'all berths occupied, ship departs' print] Sec. 8.5 Object-Oriented Languages and Systems 161 ship Docking: ship total Cargo = total Cargo + ship Size. self odd Event: (self ship Depart: shipi next: (service Distribution next) ship Depart: ship ship departs after cargo transfer' print. remajnjng Borths := remaining8erths + 1 To run the simulation program we simply execute the following statements. Simulator new. Port Harbor Operatioo new [Port time < 7201 while True: [port proceed( Note that the message "port proceed" in the while True block is sent to Harbor Operation. Since there is no method proceed in this class, it must he inherited from the Simulator class. An environment for an OOS will usually include all of the basic primitives, class and method definitions, an editor, a browser, window and mouse facilities, and a graphics output. 8.5 OBJECT-ORIENTED LANGUAGES AND SYSTEMS In addition to the Smailtalk f