probability of error drops off in the appropriate
way, so that the probability of a large error is very small. We use the term Gaussian error
GAUSSIANERROR modeltocoverboththecontinuous anddiscrete versions.
MODEL
Anyone with hands-on experience of robotics, computerized process control, or other
formsofautomaticsensingwillreadilytestifytothefactthatsmallamountsofmeasurement
noise are often the least of one s problems. Real sensors fail. When a sensor fails, it does
not necessarily send a signal saying, Oh, by the way, the data I m about to send you is a
load of nonsense. Instead, it simply sends the nonsense. The simplest kind of failure is
calledatransientfailure,wherethesensoroccasionallydecidestosendsomenonsense. For
TRANSIENTFAILURE
example, thebattery levelsensormighthaveahabitofsending azerowhensomeonebumps
therobot,evenifthebatteryisfullycharged.
Let sseewhathappenswhenatransientfailureoccurswitha Gaussianerrormodelthat
doesn taccommodatesuchfailures. Suppose,forexample,thattherobotissittingquietlyand
observes20consecutivebatteryreadingsof5. Thenthebatterymeterhasatemporaryseizure
5 Strictlyspeaking,a Gaussiandistributionisproblematicbecauseitassignsnonzeroprobabilitytolargenega-
tivechargelevels.Thebetadistributionissometimesabetterchoiceforavariablewhoserangeisrestricted.
Section15.5. Dynamic Bayesian Networks 593
andthenextreadingis BMeter 0. Whatwillthesimple Gaussianerrormodelleadusto
21
believe about Battery ? According to Bayes rule, the answer depends on both the sensor
21
model P(BMeter 0 Battery ) and the prediction P(Battery BMeter ). If the
21 21 21 1:20
probabilityofalargesensorerrorissignificantlylesslikelythantheprobabilityofatransition
to Battery 0,evenifthelatterisveryunlikely, thentheposteriordistribution willassign
21
a high probability to the battery s being empty. A second reading of 0 at t 22 will make
thisconclusion almostcertain. Ifthetransientfailurethendisappears andthereadingreturns
to 5 from t 23 onwards, the estimate for the batt