furniture . The most commonly known taxonomies are in the animal kingdom, where life forms are categorized into species and families. The tree structure of a taxonomy gives a basis for defining similarity between symbol types. Consider, for example, a taxonomy of meal types shown in Figure 15.11. It could be an attribute you have to fix for a dinner party, or the menu card of an eclectic restaurant. Dinner a oe Haggis North-Indian (Hageis A Fish n Chips South-Indian Pp i Thai eaieheschole) German 4 f ia R; -Chawal Dosai ewe f TE Sauerkraut Bisibelebath Rec unry Semmelkn del Pizza Ravioli FIGURE 15.11 The dinner offered by a restaurant may have values that can be organized in a taxonomy. Observe that only the leaves in the taxonomy represent specific food items. The internal nodes stand for collections of food items. But any node could be a value of the attribute. For example, you friend may choose Thai for dinner, meaning that any of the leaves below that node are acceptable. Or a restaurant may say that they serve Continental food, meaning that they serve all the items that are leaves below this node. How does one define similarity between different values represented by the nodes in the taxonomy of values? The topology suggests that RedCurry is more similar to Rajma-Chawal than it is to Pizza . Or one could say that it is closer to North-India than to British . Or one might say that Thai is more similar to South-Indian than it is to Mediterranean . All these comparisons can be handled as follows. For two nodes, N; and Ny, let Nj Nx denote that N; is a descendant (or hyponym) of Ny and let N, N, denote the lowest common ancestor(LCA) of Nj; and Ny. A node L is the lowest common ancestor to two nodes N and M iff N L and M L and there is no node L' such that Ne L' and M L' and L' L. For example, Asian is the LCA of Red-Curry and Rajma-Chawal . Then, a query node Q is more similar to a node N; than to node N, iff the LCA of Q and N;is a descendant of the LCA of Q and 