h, that is, such that Th fholds, (so f is not initially derivable from Th), and such that Th -f, that is. / is not known to be false: so the augmented theory is l'h' = Th U j} consistent. We specialize this type of learning to be 000lot'ieai leurning by requiring that the process use the operator - and have as inputs both the theory TJi as well as the hint A B. Also, the new fonaiulaef should he about the target analogue A d,,A) where is some -set of arbitrary formulae. The source analogue B should also saiisty the analogy formulae. Thus, we roust also have Th Finally,, we specialize the definition further to useful analogical learning by requiring that the conjectured formulae A returned by the system he limited to those formulae that are useful in the sense that the di, together with l It, can solve PT. that is Th U {(b A)) =PT. This definition of useful analogical learning is summarized in Figure 20.4 where we have named the conditions described in the above def'irror as unknown, consistent, common, and useful. These notions are illustrated in terms of our earl ici example for the hydraulics or electrical flow problem (Figure 20.2). Thus. 13 here corresponds to the known theory Th that given all Y junction as in Figure 20.2a, then 1 = l + J. The problem P7' is to find Q, the fluid flow rate in a similar Y Junction of pipes when Q1and Q, are known. The analogical hint,A B. is that the hydraulics flow problem is like the electrical current flow problem. The useful formula needed to solve the problem is of course 0, = + Q2. A more complex example would, of course, require more than a single formula. Since many analogies may satisfy the theory and the analogical hint, it is necessary to restrict the analogies considered to those which are useful. For this. NLAG uses heuristics to select only those formulae which are likely to be useful. One heuristic used by the system is based on the idea that relationships in Th,A-8H,t'(A) where UNKNOWN: Th (AI CONSISTENT: Th V (A)