a FOAF 4.4 sioc acm e xP Peel profiles Sites a Guides 7 f DBLP 4 2 RKB i Project flick Geo- cates wrapor ) P Explore names Pisa 4 anne PSS Lvl Open y Calais World Linked 4 bd Magna- Foct- MDB Seun ES 5 RDF Book es DBpedia E 7 Mashup ngvoj P Freebase 7 i 3 w3c Lf DBLP WordNet Hannover x Un ZA GEO po a ) Species DBLP e- ; Berlin Wa gE I WN Reactome ZH uinkeact UniParc fe, p drug Ca fh NA 2 hk Ta , PRC - Mec 4 (RAD A aN 5 ni chem i m GeneID F F xX fl : Kecc an a UniProt FIGURE 13.6 Apart of the LOD cloud of Figure 13.5 (from http: linkeddata.org ). Apart from the SELECT form of the query, SPARQL allows three more forms of querying the database. The CONSTRUCT query returns a single RDF graph formed by taking each query solution in the solution sequence, substituting for the variables in the specified graph template, and combining the triples into a single RDF graph by set union. The ASK form returns a yes or no answer to whether the query pattern has a solution. The DESCRIBE form returns a single result RDF graph containing RDF data about resources. The query pattern is used to create a result set, from which a description is extracted and assembled into a single RDF graph. The interested reader is directed to (Prud hommeaux and Seaborne, 2008) for details. 13.4 Properties Each term of the FOL is mapped to an object in the domain. We have also introduced event and actions, and added them as reified objects to the domain. We now look at how certain properties of objects, and events, may be described. We would like to express the following kinds of statements, with emphasis on the words in italics. The ball is red. The ball is heavy. The pencil is onger than the pen. The tree is five feet tall. Subun ate up the chocolate quickly. It took the train three hours to reach Mysore. We could of course simply translate the statements directly with the adjectives and the-yerbsderming the predicates as follows. Red(Ball22) Heavy(Ball43) LongerThan(Pencil32, Pen67) Height(Tree345, 5