nts in the specific domain, like unstack(block2, block6), walk(home22, ramesh23, office34), wakeUp(kumbhakaran7), cyclone(nisha, 2008). A Fluent Sort, with variables f, f,, f2 ... The constants of the fluent sort are the predicates from the domain, like holding(block2), loc(ramesh23, office34), awake(kumbhakaran'1). A Timepoint Sort with variables f, t,, tf, ... The constants of the timepoint sort are numbers representing time points. In the Continuous Event Calculus (CEC) they may be real numbers, and in Discrete Event Calculus (DEC) they are integers. FOL predicate Fluents) 7 i 1 a ; iF : Predicate Calculus (FOL) ae F The Physical Domain 4 Se lh af y Event Calculus FIGURE 13.8 The domain for the Event Calculus is Time, Actions and Fluents. The predicates of EC are relations between the different variables from the three sorts. Typically the relations describe the happening of events, and the relations between events, fluents and time. The commonly used predicates are described below. Happens(e, t, t2) Event e starts at t; and ends at t). Observe that the event has a duration. For example, Happens(Eclipse321, ts, t7) says that a particular eclipse happened between time points ts and t7. An instantaneous version of Happens can be defined as, appens(e, t) sf Happens(e, t, t) HoldsAt(f, t) Fluent fis true at time point t. For example, HoldsAt(Form(Glacier17, Solid), t;) says that at time point t, Glacier17 is in solid form. One may also define a predicate nitally(f) to assert that fluent fis true initially. Initally (f) HoldsAt(f, to) Initiates(e, f, t) Event e occurs at time t and results in the fluent f becoming true after t. One might for example assert that the event of waking up initiates the fluent of being awake to be true, by Initiates(wakeup(kumbhakaran7), awake(kumbhakaran7), ts). In the DEC, it means that the fluent fis true at time (f 1) and later. Terminates(e, f, f) Event e occurs at time t and results in the fluent f becoming false after t. In the DEC i