. HighFever) is true but (HighFever Malaria) is false. In that sense, inferring the disease from symptoms is in fact doing the following inference. HighFever Malaria HighFever o Malaria This inference is called abduction and is not a sound rule of inference. This means that if a patient has high fever, one cannot conclusively say that she has malaria. It could be something else too. Nevertheless, this form of reasoning is prevalent amongst human users. Doctors routinely look at symptoms and diagnose the cause. In doing so, they no doubt bring to fore their vast experience", and it is not surprising that patients flock to reputable doctors. But the inexperienced ones can go wrong. Reasoning systems that employ probabilistic knowledge have sometimes tended to mimic the operation of a rule based system, adding new sentences and assigning degrees of belief to them. This becomes an attractive option, given the paucity of probability data. One of the first expert systems developed MYCIN (Buchanan and Shortliffe, 1984) in fact expressed knowledge in (IF Symptoms THEN Disease) form, as illustrated below.32 RULE 156 IF: 1. The site of the culture blood, and 2. The gram stain of the organism is gramneg, and 3. The morphology of the organism is rod, and 4. The portal of entry of the organism is urine, and 5. The patient has not had a genito-urinary manipulative procedure, and 6. Cystitis is not a problem for which the patient has been treated. THEN: There is suggestive evidence (.6) that the identity of the organism is e.coli This is possible because we can make a probabilistic statement that if you see the symptoms then you can say what the disease is . MYCIN uses certainty factors to express how strong the association is. The certainty factor of a hypothesis H given an evidence E is made up of two values the measure of belief in H given E written as MB H, E and a measure of disbelief in H given E written as MD H, E . The certainty factor CF H, E is defined as, CFIH, E MB H, 