 that of people, then producing an acceptable explanation is much easier. 4. To exploit what knowledge we can glean from people. Since people are the best-known performers of most of the tasks with which we are dealing, it makes a lot of sense to look to them for clues as to how to proceed. This last motivation is probably the most pervasive of the four. It motivated several very early systems that attempted to produce intelligent behavior by imitating people at the level of individual neurons. For examples of this, see the early theoretical work of Mc Culloch and Pitts [1943], the work on perceptrons, originally developed by Frank Rosenblatt but best described in Perceptrons [Minsky and Papert, 1969] and Design for a Brain [Ashby, 1952]. It proved impossible, however, to produce even minimally intelligent behavior with such simple devices. One reason was that there were severe theoretical limitations to the particular neural, net architecture that was being used. More recently, several new neural net architectures have been proposed. These structures are not subject to the same theoretical limitations as were perceptrons. These new architectures are loosely called connectionist, and they have been used as a basis for several learning and problem-solving programs. We have more to say about them in Chapter 18. Also, we must consider that while human brains are rr 20 Artificial intelligence SNORE ur cen ce: highly parallel devices, most current computing systems are essentially serial engines. A highly successful parallel technique may be computationally intractable on a serial computer. But recently, partly because of the existence of the new family of parallel cognitive models, as well as because of the general promise of parallel computing, there is now substantial interest in the design of massively parallel machines to support Al programs. Human cognitive theories have also influenced AJ to look for higher-tevel (i.e., far above the neuron level) theories that do