ymbol
Left Leg. As with proposition symbols, the choice of names is entirely up to the user. Each
predicate andfunction symbolcomeswithanaritythatfixesthenumberofarguments.
ARITY
Asin propositional logic, every model must provide the information required to deter-
mine if any given sentence is true or false. Thus, in addition to its objects, relations, and
functions, each model includes an interpretation that specifies exactly which objects, rela-
INTERPRETATION
tions and functions are referred to by the constant, predicate, and function symbols. One
possibleinterpretation forourexample whichalogicianwouldcalltheintendedinterpre-
INTENDED tation isasfollows:
INTERPRETATION Richard refersto Richardthe Lionheartand John referstotheevil King John. Brother refers to the brotherhood relation, that is, the set of tuples of objects given in
Equation (8.1); On Head refers to the on head relation that holds between the crown
and King John;Person,King,and Crown refertothesetsofobjects thatarepersons,
kings,andcrowns. Left Leg referstothe leftleg function, thatis,themappinggiven in Equation(8.2).
There are many other possible interpretations, of course. For example, one interpretation
maps Richard to the crown and John to King John s left leg. There are five objects in
the model, so there are 25 possible interpretations just for the constant symbols Richard
and John. Notice that not all the objects need have a name for example, the intended
interpretation does not name the crown or the legs. It is also possible for an object to have
several names; there is an interpretation under which both Richard and John refer to the
crown.4 If you find this possibility confusing, remember that, in propositional logic, it is
perfectly possible tohaveamodelinwhich Cloudy and Sunny arebothtrue; itisthejobof
theknowledgebasetoruleoutmodelsthatareinconsistent withourknowledge.
4 Later,in Section8.2.8,weexamineasemanticsinwhicheveryobjecthasexactlyonename.
Section8.2. Syntaxand Semanticsof First