e of subatomic particles. According to the atomic theories of yesteryears, when atoms were supposed to be indvisible, the world is made up of a large collection of atoms existing in many clust rziahdtiateracting in myriad ways. Conceptually as we move up the level of detail we create concepts at the molecular level, biological death ub ate level, geological level and astronomical level with the same set of atoms. In that sense the world as we know it is our own creation. These reified concepts we create in our minds have obviously been critically instrumental in us being able to comprehend the world and interact meaningfully with it, including actions like reading these very words that you are doing right now. Every discipline of science and art creates representations at a level of detail suited to it. An expert in that discipline is well versed in its ontology. In modern times no individual can be a philosopher in the sense of olden days. We exist as a society of heterogeneous minds, each specialized in some domain. Perhaps in this context it might be too much to expect a single computer (program) to be omniscient, and one must be willing to accept artificial intelligence if it too manifests itself in a heterogeneous form. Meanwhile the task of devising an integrated knowledge representation that can be central to diverse domains and different forms of reasoning will surely keep Al researchers occupied for at least a decade. The objective of writing computer programs demands that we create the conceptual world that is of interest in an explicit and formal manner, because computers at the lowest level are simply syntactic processors. Intelligent or meaningful behavior can only emerge at a higher level. The task of creating representations for conceptual structures is to a large extent domain dependent, and is generally referred to as knowledge engineering. In this chapter and the next, we look at some general principles that can guide the choice of our predicates, 