s one talking of a specific object in the domain (mapped to by the constant Stick ) or a generic one? If it is the latter, and the phrase a stick certainly suggests so, then FOL would require us to state the sentence as, 3 x (Stick(x) A Hitlnstr(Azizi32, Anuun12, x)) In the above sentence, Stick is now a predicate or category, and x is the variable that refers to an element of that category. If we were to use a typed version of FOL called Many-Sorted FOL then one could introduce a type or a category or a sort Scy,, and use the sentence Hitinstr(Azizi32, Anuun12, Stick) where Stick now refers to a variable from the sort S.tick. We will look at sorted logic in a little bit more detail when we look at the Event Calculus below. One may also notice that we have glossed over the treatment of time and used the term Oct 12 to somehow stand for October 12. Some of the issues can be tackled by introducing an event type or sort into the system, reify the hitting event, and describe its properties. We can also adopt a uniform description framework constituting of a triple made up of subject, predicate, object or subject, property, value in which each statement conforms to the triple syntax. Additional information about an event can then be expressed by asserting more statements (triples) instead of arbitrarily increasing the arity of the predicate. The hitting episode can now be describes as, (Hitting event Instance e3,) 1 3, is a (type of) Hitting event ( 34 Actor Azizi32) : The actor of e3, is Azizi ( 34 Object Anuun12) : The object of e3, is Anuun (3, Date Oct 12) : The date of e3, is October 12 ( 3, Loc Paris) : The location of e3, is Paris (e341 Instrument Stick) : The Instrument of e3, is Stick Here Hitting event is a type of an event. The first sentence says that e3, is an instance of Hitting event, and the rest of the sentences provide more information about this event. Observe that we have not stated explicitly that the hitting event has happened. The Event Calculus wi