rthananexplicitlyenumer-
atedsetofstates. Forexample,inchess,thegoalistoreach astatecalled checkmate, wheretheopponent s kingisunderattackandcan tescape. A path cost function that assigns a numeric cost to each path. The problem-solving
PATHCOST
agent chooses acost function that reflects its ownperformance measure. Forthe agent
tryingtogetto Bucharest,timeisoftheessence,sothecostofapathmightbeitslength
inkilometers. Inthischapter, weassumethatthecostofapathcanbedescribed asthe
sumofthecostsoftheindividualactionsalongthepath.3 Thestepcostoftakingaction
STEPCOST
(cid:2) (cid:2)
a in state s to reach state s is denoted by c(s,a,s). The step costs for Romania are
shownin Figure3.2asroutedistances. Weassumethatstepcostsarenonnegative.4
The preceding elements define a problem and can be gathered into a single data structure
that is given as input to a problem-solving algorithm. A solution to a problem is an action
sequence that leads from the initial state to agoal state. Solution quality is measured by the
pathcostfunction, andanoptimalsolutionhasthelowestpathcostamongallsolutions.
OPTIMALSOLUTION
3.1.2 Formulatingproblems
Intheprecedingsectionweproposed aformulationoftheproblemofgettingto Bucharestin
termsoftheinitial state, actions, transition model, goal test, andpath cost. Thisformulation
seems reasonable, but it is still a model an abstract mathematical description and not the
3 Thisassumptionisalgorithmicallyconvenientbutalsotheoreticallyjustifiable seepage649in Chapter17.
4 Theimplicationsofnegativecostsareexploredin Exercise3.8.
Section3.2. Example Problems 69
realthing. Comparethesimplestatedescriptionwehavechosen,In(Arad),toanactualcross-
countrytrip,wherethestateoftheworldincludessomanythings: thetravelingcompanions,
the current radio program, the scenery out of the window, the proximity of law enforcement
officers, the distance to the next rest stop, the condition of the road, the weather, and so on.
Alltheseconsiderations areleftoutofourstatedescriptionsbeca