ish estimates of some relative perfonnance characteristics among the different learning methods we will be considering. Generality. One of the most important performance measures for learning methods is the generality or scope of the method. Generality is a measure of the ease with which the method can be adapted to different domains of application. A completely general algorithm is one which is a fixed or self adjusting configuration that can learn or adapt in any environment or application domain. At the other extreme are methods which function in a single domain only. Methods which have some degree of generality will function well in at least a few domains. Efficiency. The efficiency of a method is a measure of the average time required to construct the target knowledge structures from some specified initial structures. Since this measure is often difficult to determine and is meaningless without some standard comparison time, a relative efficiency index can he used instead. For example. the relative efficiency of a method can be defined as the ratio of the time required for the given method to the time required for a purely random search to find the target structures. Robustness. Robustness is the ability of a learning system to function with unreliable feedback and with a variety of training examples, including noisy ones. A robust system must he able to build tentative structures which are subject to modification or withdrawal if later found to be inconsistent with statistically sound structures. This is nonmonotonic learning. the analog of nonmonotonic reasoning discussed in Chapter 5. Sec. 16.6 Summary 365 Efficacy. The efficacy of a system is a measure of the overall power of the system. It is a combination of the factors generality, efficiency, and robustness. We say that system A is more efficacious than system B if system A is more efficient, robust, and general than B. Ease of implementation. Ease of implementation relates to the complexity of the progr