s helpful to do so during a proof. 106 Artificial Intelligence Consider the following set of facts, again involving Marcus: 1. Marcus was a man. man(Marcus) Again we ignore the issue of tense. . Marcus was a Pompeian. Pompeian(Marcus) . Marcus was born in 40 A.D. born(Marcus, 40) For simplicity, we will not represent A.D. explicitly, just as we normally omit it in everyday discussions. If we ever need to represent dates B.C., then we will have to decide on a way to do that, such as by using negative numbers. Notice that the representation of a sentence does not have to look like the sentence itself as long as there is a way to convert back and forth between them. This allows us to choose a representation, such as positive and negative numbers, that is easy for a program to work with. All men are mortal. Wax: man(x} 2 mortal(x) All Pompeians died when the volcano erupted in 79 A.D. erupted(votcano, 79) /\ Vx : [Pompeian(x) > died(x, 79)| This sentence clearly asserts the two facts represented above. It may also assert another that we have not shown, namely that the eruption of the volcano caused the death of the Pompeians. People often assume causality between concurrent events if such causality seems plausible. Another problem that arises in interpreting this sentence is that of determining the referent of the phrase the volcano. There is more than one volcano in the world. Clearly the one referred to here is Vesuvius, which is near Pompeii and erupted in 79 A.D. In general, resolving references such as these can require both a lot of reasoning and a lot of additional knowledge. No morta! lives longer than 150 years. Vx: Wt, 2 Vt, : mortal(x) /\ born(x, t,) A gt{t, t),150) > dead(x, ty) There are several ways that the content of this sentence could be expressed. For example, we could introduce a function age and assert that its value is never greater than 150. The representation shown above is simpler, though, and it will suffice for this example. It is now 1991. no