ems will use program modules to simulate a particular environment. In even more realistic cases, the system will have real physical sensors which interface with some world environment. Inputs to the learner component may be physical stimuli of some t ype or descriptive, symbolic training examples. The information conveyed to the learner Collipoflefl I is used to create and modify knowledge structures in the knowledge base. This same knowledge is used by the performance component to carry Out soni C [asks. such as solving a problem, playing a game. or classifying instances of some concept. When given it task, the performance component produces a response describing its actions in performing the task. The critic module then evaluates this response relative to an optimal response. Feedback, indicating whether or not the performance was acceptable, is then sent by the critic module to the learner component for its subsequent use in modifying the structures in the knowledge base. If proper learning was accomplished. the system's performance will have improved with the changes made to the knowledge base. -) The cycle described above may be repeated a number of times until the performance of the system has reached some acceptable level, until a known learning goal has been reached, or until changes cease to occur in the knowledge base after some chosen number of training examples have been observed. Sec. 16.4 General Learning Model 363 There are several important factors whth influence a system's ability to learn in addition to the form of representation used. They include the types of training provided, the form and extent of any initial background knowledge. the type of feedback provided, and the learning algorithms used (Figure 16.2). The type of training used in a system can have a strong effect on perfoi-manc, much the same as it does for humans. Training may consist of randomly selected instances or examples that have been carefullyselected and ordered for presentati