ation (@ + b means that the value of h at a node is a and the value of g is b): Blas) fear) The second and third steps then result in the following sequence of situations: Bl (4+1) C)(3+1) B] (4+1) C}(3+1) (4+2) E](2+2) (B)(4#2) (a) What node will be expanded at the next step? (b) Can we guarantee that the best solution will be found? 6. Why must the A* algorithm work properly on graphs containing cycles? Cycles could be prevented if when a new path is generated to an existing node, that path were ry simply thrown away if it is no better than the existing recorded one. A (Bl D i E F H If g is nonnegative, a cyclic path can never be better than the same [B path with the cycle omitted. For example, consider the first graph shown below, in which the nodes were generated in alphabetical order. The fact that node D is a successor of node F could simply not be recorded since the path through node F is longer than the one 5 through node B. This same reasoning would also prevent us from mol 76 9, 10. 13. 14. 15, Artificial Intelligence _ereineiiensenonatierenee recording node E as a successor of node F, if such was the case, But what would happen in the situation shown in the second graph below if the path from node G to node F were not recorded and, at the next step, it were discovered that node G is a successor of node C? Formalize the Graceful Decay of Admissibility Corollary and prove that it is true of the A* algorithm. {n step 2(a} of the AO* algorithm, a random state at the end of the current best path is chosen for expansion. But there are beuristics that can be used to influence this choice. For example, it may make sense to choose the state whose current cost estimate is the lowest. Tbe argument for this is that for such nodes, only x few steps are required before either a solution is found or a revised cost estimate is produced. With nodes whose current cost estimate is large, on the other hand, many steps may be required before any new information is obtained. H