ful semantics of such terms (Zadeh, 1965). A fuzzy set is a set which does not define membership of a set in crisp yes no terms. Rather there are degrees of membership with which an element can belong to a set. While a crisp Set A is defined by its members, or by a characteristic function c: A 0, 1 , a fuzzy set A is defined by a membership function m: A 0, 1 . An element x can belong to a crisp set only of c(x) 1, and it does not belong to it if c(x) 0. On the other hand an element x can belong to a fuzzy set with a degree m(x) which may be a value anywhere between 0 and 1. Thus if m(x) 0.7 then we then we would be justified in saying that x belongs to A to a large extent. Consider a rule in a fuzzy controller that says turn off the heater if the water is hot . Let us say the water is at 60 degree Celsius and we have a fuzzy membership function of hot that gives us a value of 0.8. How can we interpret or operationalize such a rule? One way would be to introduce randomized moves (like in simulated annealing) and have a well defined action that is applied with a probability proportional to the fuzzy membership value. The other, that is often used, is to determine whether a given temperature value belongs most to the fuzzy set hot, as compared to other sets like warm or cool, and then take the action specified in the fuzzy rule. height Crisp set FIGURE 13.7 Different possible fuzzy membership functions for the notion of tall. Defining fuzzy membership functions is the key feature in such applications. The shape of the membership function would determine the semantics of the fuzzy category. Figure 13.7 shows a set of possible fuzzy membership functions defining the notion of tall people. All the functions are monotonically increasing, which means that they all associate increasing height with increasing membership values. The values range between zero (definitely not tall) to one (definitely tall). Often to simplify computation one tends to use a linear function. The v