mals. Tbe problem of understanding spoken language is a perceptual problem and is hard to solve for the reasons just discussed. But suppose we simplify the problem by restricting it to written language. This problem, usually referred to as natural language understanding, is still extremely difficult. In order to understand sentences about a topic, it is necessary to know not only a lot about the language itself (its vocabulary and grammar) but also a good deal about the topic so that unstated assumptions can be recognized. We discuss this problem again later in this chapter and then in more detail in Chapter 15. In addition to these mundane tasks, many people can also perform one or maybe more specialized tasks in which carefully acquired expertise is necessary. Examples of such tasks include engineering design, scientific discovery, medical diagnosis, and financial planning. Programs that can solve problems in these domains also fall under the aegis of artificial intelligence. Figure 1.1 lists some of the tasks that are the targets of work in Al. What is Artificial Intelligence? 5 TEA ANN ARETE ELENA LATENT TT POTS A person who knows how to perform tasks from several of the categories shown in the figure learns the necessary skills in a standard order. First, perceptual, linguistic, and commonsense skills are learned. Later (and of course for some people, never) expert skills such as engineering, medicine, or finance are acquired. It might seem to make sense then that the earlier skills are easier and thus more amenable to computerized duplication than are the later, more specialized ones. For this reason, much of the initial Al work was concentrated in those early areas. But it tums out that this naive assumption is not right. Although expert skills require knowledge that many of us do not have, they often require much less knowledge than do the more mundane skills and that knowledge is usually easier to represent and deal with inside programs. Mundane Tasks Perce