aving the surface (evaporating) and reentering the liquid. We can extend this description to almost everything in the world around us. The fact that we tend to think of objects with well defined extents and surfaces is in fact the creation of our own minds. An interesting anecdote that conveys our perception of objects is that of the Illinois farmer who possessed the (very same) axe used by Abraham Lincoln, where only the handle had been replaced twice and the head once. Also a work of fiction, the film Matrix (1999) by Andy Wachowski and Lana Wachowski, questions the nature of reality as perceived by humans, where the protagonist discovers that all life on Earth may be nothing more than an elaborate facade created by a malevolent cyber-intelligence, '? a throwback to the fears of Descartes. The point we are trying to make here is the ability to imagine is what is needed for intelligence. An agent can exist intelligently if it is able to imagine the world it operates in. Intelligent systems can be built around the ability to represent and model the world, and reason about change in the model. The hypothesis called the Physical Symbol System Hypothesis stated by Alan Newell and Herbert Simon asserts that the ability to represent and manipulate symbolic structures is both necessary and sufficient to create intelligence (Newell and Simon, 1976). This means that it does not matter whether the agent is living or nonliving; carbon based biological form, an electromechanical robot or a virtual creature in cyberspace. All one needs is the ability to create symbolic representations and the ability to manipulate those representations. The degree of intelligence they demonstrate will depend upon the relevance and richness of their representations and the effectiveness of their manipulation procedures. 1.5 Topics in Al Philosophers have long dwelt over the mind and the human being that possesses that mind. They have asked questions about the universe and the mind that perceives