ent forsemantics.
4. Brainscauseminds.
From the first three axioms Searle concludes that programs are not sufficient for minds. In
otherwords,anagentrunningaprogram mightbeamind,butitisnotnecessarilyamindjust
by virtue of running the program. From the fourth axiom he concludes Any other system
capable of causing minds would have to have causal powers (at least) equivalent to those
of brains. From there he infers that any artificial brain would have to duplicate the causal
powers of brains, not just run a particular program, and that human brains do not produce
mentalphenomena solelybyvirtueofrunningaprogram.
The axioms are controversial. For example, axioms 1 and 2 rely on an unspecified
distinction between syntax and semantics that seems to be closely related to the distinction
betweennarrowandwidecontent. Ontheonehand,wecanviewcomputersasmanipulating
syntactic symbols; on the other, we can view them as manipulating electric current, which
happens to be what brains mostly do (according to our current understanding). So it seems
wecouldequally saythatbrainsaresyntactic.
Assuming we are generous in interpreting the axioms, then the conclusion that pro-
grams are not sufficient for minds does follow. But the conclusion is unsatisfactory all
Searlehasshownisthatifyouexplicitly denyfunctionalism (thatiswhathisaxiom3does),
then you can t necessarily conclude that non-brains are minds. This is reasonable enough almost tautological so the whole argument comes down to whether axiom 3 can be ac-
cepted. Accordingto Searle,thepointofthe Chinese Roomargumentistoprovideintuitions
for axiom 3. The public reaction shows that the argument is acting as what Daniel Dennett
(1991) calls an intuition pump: it amplifies one s prior intuitions, so biological naturalists
INTUITIONPUMP
are more convinced of their positions, and functionalists are convinced only that axiom 3 is
unsupported, or that in general Searle s argument is unconvincing. The argument stirs up
combatants, but has done