king, and is seen as something that is instrumental in assimilation and aggregation of similar experiences. The word schema derives from the Greek word oxnua which means form , shape or figure (see Table 12.1) and indicates the essential commonality of a broad category . It is a mechanism that facilitates generalization, synthesis, storage and retrieval of similar experiences (Marshall, 1995). Like many ideas in knowledge representation, the notion of schema first appeared in philosophy. In Platos s Dialogues, it appears to signify not only form and shape but also abstraction and generalization. n his Metaphysics, Aristotle relates the schema to his concept of categories, and thus to the essence of things. Schemas, according to Aristotle, facilitate the recognition and understanding of basic properties. The 18thcentury German philosopher, Immanuel Kant, takes up the notion of schema in his Critique of Pure Reason (Kant, 1781). A priori intuitions and concepts, the term Kant uses for schemas, provide us with the framework for our a posteriori knowledge. Things as they are in themselves the thing in itself or das Ding an sich are unknowable. For something to become an object of knowledge, it must be experienced, and experience is structured by our minds both space and time as the forms of our intuition or perception, and the unifying, structuring activity of our concepts. These aspects of mind turn things-in-themselves into the world of experience. We are never passive observers or knowers. This finds resonance with the modern view that we actively construct the worlds that we perceive. The baton of studying cognitive schema was then taken up by psychologists. The two most prominent amongst them were Frederic Bartlett (1886-1969) and Jean Piaget (1896-1980). Bartlett, one of the earliest experimental psychologists, was interested in how people remember things and what they remember. His method of study was to make people listen to stories that, while looking normal on