non is
quite general and is related to the distinction between causal and diagnostic models intro-
duced in Section 13.5.1 (see also Exercise 8.13). If we try to build a diagnostic model with
links from symptoms to causes (as from Mary Calls to Alarm or Alarm to Burglary), we
enduphavingtospecifyadditionaldependenciesbetweenotherwiseindependentcauses(and
oftenbetweenseparately occurring symptomsaswell). Ifwesticktoacausalmodel,weend
uphavingtospecifyfewernumbers,andthenumberswilloftenbeeasiertocomeupwith. In
the domain of medicine, for example, it has been shown by Tversky and Kahneman (1982)
that expert physicians prefer to give probability judgments for causal rules rather than for
diagnostic ones.
Figure14.3(b) shows averybad node ordering: Mary Calls, John Calls, Earthquake,
Burglary,Alarm. Thisnetworkrequires31distinctprobabilitiestobespecified exactlythe
samenumberasthefull joint distribution. Itisimportant torealize, however, that anyofthe
threenetworkscanrepresent exactlythesamejointdistribution. Thelasttwoversionssimply
failtorepresentalltheconditionalindependence relationships andhenceendupspecifying a
lotofunnecessary numbersinstead.
14.2.2 Conditionalindependence relationsin Bayesiannetworks
We have provided a numerical semantics for Bayesian networks in terms of the represen-
tation of the full joint distribution, as in Equation (14.2). Using this semantics to derive a
method for constructing Bayesian networks, we were led to the consequence that a node is
conditionally independent of its other predecessors, given its parents. It turns out that we
canalso gointheotherdirection. Wecanstart from a topological semantics that specifies
theconditional independence relationships encoded bythe graphstructure, andfromthiswe
can derive the numerical semantics. The topological semantics2 specifies that each vari-
able is conditionally independent of its non-descendants, given its parents. Forexample, in
DESCENDANT
Figure14.2, John Calls isindependent of Burglary,