ate can be represented by a conjunction of size O(n). This is a very comforting result,
considering that there are 2n states in the world. It says we can compactly represent all the
subsetsofthose2n statesthatwewilleverneed. Moreover,theprocessofcheckingforbelief
Section11.3. Planningand Actingin Nondeterministic Domains 419
states that are subsets or supersets of previously visited belief states is also easy, at least in
thepropositional case.
Theflyinthe ointment of this pleasant picture isthat itonly works foraction schemas
that have the same effects for all states in which their preconditions are satisfied. It is this
propertythatenablesthepreservationofthe1-CN Fbelief-staterepresentation. Assoonasthe
effect can depend on the state, dependencies are introduced between fluents and the 1-CNF
property is lost. Consider, for example, the simple vacuum world defined in Section 3.2.1.
Let the fluents be At L and At R for the location of the robot and Clean L and Clean R for
the state of the squares. According to the definition of the problem, the Suck action has no
precondition itcanalwaysbedone. Thedifficultyisthatitseffectdependsontherobot slo-
cation: whentherobotis At L,theresultis Clean L,butwhenitis At R,theresultis Clean R.
CONDITIONAL Forsuch actions, ouraction schemas will need something new: a conditional effect. These
EFFECT
have the syntax when condition: effect, where condition is a logical formula to be com-
pared against the current state, and effect is a formula describing the resulting state. Forthe
vacuumworld,wehave
Action(Suck,
EFFECT:when At L:Clean L when At R:Clean R).
When applied to the initial belief state True, the resulting belief state is (At L Clean L) (At R Clean R), which is no longer in 1-CNF. (This transition can be seen in Figure 4.14
on page 141.) In general, conditional effects can induce arbitrary dependencies among the
fluentsinabeliefstate, leadingtobeliefstatesofexponential sizeintheworstcase.
It is important to understand the 