e is no longer in the version space. In our representation language, specialization involves replacing variables with constants. (Note: The G set must be specialized only to descriptions that are wit/ir the current version space, not outside of it.) Here are the available specializations: > To make this example concise, we skip slot names in the descriptions. We just list slot values in the order in which the slots have been shown in the preceding figures. 362 Artificial Intelligence ed G = ((q, Honda, x4, 4, Xs), Xy, ty, Blue, x4, x5), (4), Xp, 13, 1980, 5), (4. Xo, 13, X4, Economy)} The S set is unaffected by the negative example. Now we come to the third example, a positive one. The first order of business is to remove from the G set any descriptions that are inconsistent with the positive example. Our new G set is: G = (( ), Xp, Blue, X45 X5), (X15 X25 X3, X4, Economy)} We must now generalize the S set to include the new example. This involves replacing constants with variables. Here is the new S set: S = {Vapan, x5, Blue, x4, Economy)} At this point, the $ and G sets specify a version space (a space of candidate descriptions) that can be translated roughly into English as: The target concept may be as specific as Japanese, blue economy car, or as general as either blue car or economy car. Next, we get another negative example, a car whose origin is USA. The S set is unaffected, but the G set must be specialized to avoid covering the new example. The new G set is: G = ((Japan, x, Blue, x4, x5), (Japan, x), x5, x4, Economy)} We now know that the car must be Japanese, because ail of the descriptions in the version space contain Japan as origin. Our final example is a positive one. We first remove from the G set any descriptions that are incensistent with it, leaving: G = {(VJapan, x , X4, X4, Economy)} We then generalize the S set to include the new example: S= ((/apan, X, X3, 44, Economy)} S and G are both singletons, so the algorithm has converged on the target 