e-like structures with groups of slots we will call clusters as depicted in Figure 18.5. The target concept is given in the concept name. The actual description is then built up as a group of slots labeled as clusters. All training examples, both positive and negative, are retained in the example slots for use or reuse in building up the descriptions. An example will illustrate the basic algorithm. Garden World Example Each cluster in the frame of Figure 18.5 is treated as a disjunctive term, and descriptions within each cluster are treated as conjuncts. A complete learning cycle will clarify the way in which the clusters and frames (concepts) are created. We will use the following training examples from a garden world to teach our learner the concept "tall flower or yellow object." (tall fat brown flower +) (green tall skinny flower +) (skinny short yellow weed +) (tall fat brown weed ) (fat yellow flower tall +) 392 Learning by Induction Chap. 18 After accepting the first training instance, the learner creates the tentative concept hypothesis a tall fat brown flower." This is accomplished by creating a cluster in the positive part of the frame as follows: concept _name:(tall flower or yellow object) positive_part: cluster:descrip)jon:(tal) fat brown flower) :examples:(tall fat brown flower) negative_ part: With only a single example, the learner has concluded the tentative concept must be the same as the instance. However, after the second training instance, a new hypothesis is created by merging the two initial positive instances. Two instances are merged by taking the set intersection of the two. This results in a more general description, but one which is consistent with both positive examples. It produces the following structure. concept_name:(tall flower or yellow object) positive part: cluster: description: (tall, flower) :examples:(tall fat brown flower) (green tall skinny flower) negative part: examples: The next training example is also a positive one. Th