sreceived.
t
Section25.3. Robotic Perception 979
A t 2 A t 1 A t
X t 1 X t X t 1
Z t 1 Z t Z t 1
Figure 25.7 Robot perception can be viewed as temporal inference from sequences of
actionsandmeasurements,asillustratedbythisdynamic Bayesnetwork.
Wewould liketocompute thenew belief state, P(X z ,a ), fromthecurrent
t 1 1:t 1 1:t
belief state P(X t z 1:t ,a 1:t 1 ) and the new observation z t 1 . We did this in Section 15.2,
but here there are two differences: we condition explicitly on the actions as well as the ob-
servations, and wedeal with continuous rather than discrete variables. Thus, we modify the
recursivefilteringequation (15.5onpage572)touseintegration ratherthansummation:
P(X z ,a )
t 1 1:t 1 1:t (cid:26) P(z t 1 X t 1 ) P(X t 1 x t ,a t ) P(x t z 1:t ,a 1:t 1 ) dx t . (25.1)
This equation states that the posterior over the state variables X at time t 1 is calculated
recursively from the corresponding estimate one time step earlier. This calculation involves
the previous action a and the current sensor measurement z . For example, if our goal
t t 1
is to develop a soccer-playing robot, X might be the location of the soccer ball relative
t 1
to the robot. The posterior P(X t z 1:t ,a 1:t 1 ) isa probability distribution overall states that
captureswhatweknowfrompastsensormeasurementsandcontrols. Equation(25.1)tellsus
how to recursively estimate this location, by incrementally folding in sensor measurements
(e.g.,cameraimages)androbotmotioncommands. Theprobability P(X x ,a )iscalled
t 1 t t
thetransitionmodelormotionmodel,and P(z X )isthesensormodel.
MOTIONMODEL t 1 t 1
25.3.1 Localizationand mapping
Localization is the problem of finding out where things are including the robot itself.
LOCALIZATION
Knowledge about where things are is at the core of any successful physical interaction with
the environment. For example, robot manipulators must know the location of objects they
seektomanipulate; navigating robotsmustknowwheretheyaretofindtheirwayaround.
To keep