ocess, a curious thing happened. Many of the notions that human experts held were proven to be wrong, eventually leading to modification of the expert knowledge itself. An example given in (Tesauro, 1994) illustrates such a change. In the opening position, if Black was to roll 4 1 then the expert opinion was to play 13-9, 6-5 but was changed to 13-9, 24-23 after TD-Gammon preferred it, and was subsequently validated by rollout. In his way, TD-Gammon has altered the way in which human experts evaluate positions! 8.5 Beyond Search There are some games that can be analysed in advance completely. Consider, for example, the game, which we will call Pic123, where there are a number of coins (or sticks) on the board, and a player can pick up one, or two, or three coins at a time. The last one to pick a coin, and clear the board, is the loser. Obviously, a state with only one coin is unsafe because the player has to pick that coin, and clear the board. One can see that if there are two or three or four coins on the board, a player, say MAX, is safe . MAX can pick up an appropriate number leaving only one coin on the board, which then MIN is forced to pick. Working backwards, one can see that if MIN is looking at five coins then whatever MIN does results in a safe state (2, 3 or 4 coins) for MAX. So a state with five coins is also unsafe, provided MAX plays perfectly. We can extend this argument and see that the states can be categorized as follows. If a state has (1 4n) coins, it is unsafe, where n is a natural number. Else, the state is safe. The only thing that one needs to do to win this game is to ensure that the opponent is an unsafe state. Then whatever the opponent does, one can put her back in an unsafe state, as shown in Figure 8.44 below. Observe that the graph in the figure is a strategy, containing one move for MAX and all for MIN. And this strategy is a winning strategy. Of course, if the opponent has also done this analysis then the starting board position com