and other kites. If you are playing a game of tennis then you need to keep an eye on the ball at all times. On the other hand, if you are playing a game of bridge, you only need to look out for the next card played, unless it's the opponent s expression after you have put her on test by leading the jack. If you are baking a cake then you could in fact turn away and have a siesta while it is being done. The point is that a rational agent in a dynamic world has to keep doing the following. Update its beliefs or its model of the world as it changes. Update its desires as new ones crop up and existing ones are achieved or discarded. Update its intentions to choose the ones to act upon currently. Update its plans as all of the above change. Choose and execute an action (from the plan). Also, all of the above are inextricably cross linked with each other. Current research on agents focuses less on the knowledge representation aspect, and more on the reasoning processes described above. The research described in agents literature is more concerned with maintaining a consistent set of beliefs, and optimizing upon the selection and consummation of intentions in a framework, where both computation and memory are resource bounded. The research on knowledge representation has been done elsewhere independently. We will look at the various aspects of knowledge representation briefly below, and in more detail in individual chapters. Let us first try and reconnoitre the different approaches to knowledge representation. 11.2 Facets of Knowledge Chess playing was one of the earliest pursuits in artificial intelligence, and now there exist many programs that can play better than most human players. Yet, we are not willing to call such a program intelligent. This is probably because we see it as a program that somehow searches through combinations efficiently and nothing more than that. It only knows how to choose a move, given a board position. Let us try and imagine what would make i