 in a wide variety of computing environments including word processing, character or text recognition systems, speech recognition 326 Artificial Intelligence and generation. Spell checking is one of the pre-processing formalities for most natural language processors. Studies on computer aided spell checking date back to the early 1960 s and with the advent of it being applied to new languages, continue to be one of the challenging areas in information processing. Spell checking involves identifying words and non words and also suggesting the possible alternatives for its correction. Most available spell checkers focus on processing isolated words and do not take into account the context. For instance if you try typing Henry sar on the box in Microsoft Word 2003 and find what suggestions it serves, you will find that the correct word sat is missing! Now try typing this Henry at on the box Here you will find that the error remains undetected as the word at is spelt correctly as an isolated word. Observe that context plays a vital role in spell checking. 15.6.1 Spelling Errors Damerau (1964) conducted a survey on misspelled words and found that most of the non words were a result of single error misspellings. Based on this survey it 'was found that the three causes of error are: Insertion: Insertion of an extra letter while typing. E.g. maximum typed as maxiimum. The extra i has been inserted within the word. * Deletion: A case of a letter missing or not typed in a word. E.g. netwrk instead of network. Substitution: Typing of a letter in place of the correct one as in intellugence wherein the letter i has been wrongly substituted by u. Spelling errors may be classified into the following types ~ Typographic errors: As the name suggests, these errors are those that are caused due to mistakes committed while typing. A typical example is netwrk instead of network. Orthographic errors: These, on the other hand, result due to a lack of comprehension of the concerned languag