derstomanipulateprices.
COLLUSION
Itcanhappeninsecretbackroom dealsortacitly, withinthe rulesofthemechanism.
For example, in 1999, Germany auctioned ten blocks of cell-phone spectrum with a
simultaneous auction (bidsweretakenonalltenblocksatthesametime),usingtherulethat
anybidmustbeaminimumofa10 raiseoverthepreviousbidonablock. Therewereonly
two credible bidders, and the first, Mannesman, entered the bid of 20 million deutschmark
onblocks1-5and18.18milliononblocks6-10. Why18.18M?Oneof T-Mobile smanagers
said they interpreted Mannesman s first bid as an offer. Both parties could compute that
a 10 raise on 18.18M is 19.99M; thus Mannesman s bid was interpreted as saying we
can each get half the blocks for 20M; let s not spoil it by bidding the prices up higher. And in fact T-Mobile bid 20M on blocks 6-10 and that was the end of the bidding. The
German government got less than they expected, because the two competitors were able to
use the bidding mechanism to come to a tacit agreement on how not to compete. From
the government s point of view, a better result could have been obtained by any of these
changes to the mechanism: a higher reserve price; a sealed-bid first-price auction, so that
the competitors could not communicate through their bids; or incentives to bring in a third
bidder. Perhaps the 10 rule was an error in mechanism design, because it facilitated the
precisesignaling from Mannesmanto T-Mobile.
In general, both the seller and the global utility function benefit if there are more bid-
ders, although global utility can suffer if you count the cost of wasted time of bidders that
have no chance of winning. One way to encourage more bidders is to make the mechanism
easier for them. After all, if it requires too much research orcomputation on the part of the
bidders, they may decide to take their money elsewhere. So it is desirable that the bidders
haveadominantstrategy. Recallthat dominant meansthatthestrategy worksagainst all
other strategies, which in tur