know that B is going to be released, only C and are left. So the chances are now . What did do wrong? Is the prisoner A s reasoning correct? 22. The Monty Hall problem, a variation of the three prisoners paradox, is based on a game show hosted by Monty Hall (see http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Monty Hall problem). You are shown three closed doors by the host of a game show, Monty. Behind one of the doors is a car (which you want) and behind the other two is a goat (which you don t want). Let us say you choose a door X. Then Monty opens another door Y ( X, he can always do that). You get a chance to switch to door Z (4X, Y). The question is, do you gain from switching to Z? 23. Pose the problem in Section 17.6.1 to find the maximum a posteriori hypothesis problem as solve it. Assume the prior probabilities as P(Aditi) P(Urvi) 0.3 and P(Amala) P(Kopal) 0.2. Let the likelihoods of the cartoon being put up be P(Cartoon Amala) P(Cartoon Urvi) 0.6, P(Cartoon Aditi) 0.5 and P(Cartoon Kopal) 0.55. What is the most likely hypothesis? How will you incorporate the third piece of evidence? 24. Given that a reliable doctor believes that the patient has meningitis with probability 0.99 or a brain tumour with probability 0.01. Let another equally reputable doctor believe that the patient has suffered a concussion with probability 0.99 and brain tumour with probability 0.01. What is the most likely diagnosis obtained by combing the two pieces of evidence in the D-S approach with the revised (normalized) Dempster s rule for combining evidence? This problem was apparently posed by Lotfi Zadeh (1984) to show that the revised rule leads to a counterintuitive conclusion. Also see http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Dempster E2 80 93Shafer theory 25. The adjoining Figure 17.44 depicts with shaded areas the time intervals your local news channel allocates to content. The rest of the time is devoted to advertisements. Assuming that we count time in minutes, the content durations are ( 0,7 , 10, 13 , 1