led a Goal and is presented on the ? prompt as ?- delicious(Food). Food = cakes Press ; to get the remaining alternatives for Food viz. Food = pickles; Food = biryani 498 Artificial Intelligence OEE PEET'S Note that the goal also ends with a . (period). How do we find out the kind of food a person likes. Try the goal: likes( priva, Food). which means What food does Priya like? . The goal and the response of the system is shown below: | ?- likes(priya,Food), Food = cakes Press ; to get the remaining alternatives for Food viz. Food = cakes ; Food = pickles ; Food = biryani fo. Now try the goal: likes( prakash, Food). The above program serves several goals. Apart from finding out what food Priya and Prakash like, you can also find which food items are spicy and who relishes what. More complex goals could also be presented. For instance you could ask other questions like: Who relishes coffee and also likes pickles? using the goal given below. ?- relishes(Who,coffee),likes(Who, pickles). Who = priya Alternatively, you could also query the likings of a person who relishes coffee as: 2 relishes( Who,coffee), tikes(Who,Food). for which you will get the following answers: Who = priya , Food = cakes : Who = priya , Food = pickles ; Who = priya , Food = biryani Now do you like PROLOG or not? If the answer is negative then try writing code in any of the other conventional languages (C, BASIC, Java,...) to realize the same! Don t forget that the same PROLOG program can still reason around and satisfy many other goals. Try these as goals PROLOG - The Natural Language of Artificial Intelligence 499 TRENT ANCE delicious(cakes). meaning - Are cakes delicious? and spicy(pickles). Are pickles spicy? likes(priya, biryani). Does Priya like biryani? All these goals will prompt the PROLOG inference engine to yield a Yes as all of them are True. By now you are already familiar with what facts and rules are and how goals serve to query information. You are also aware of Variables and Consta