 > in the last section. Figure 8,2(a) shows the flow of constraints we described in MYCIN-style rules. But recall that the net problem that we encountered with that (a) (6) example was that the constraints flowed Fig. 8.2 Representing Causality Uniformly incorrectly from sprinkler on to rained last night. The problem was that we failed to make a distinction that turned out to be critical. There are two different ways that propositions can influence the likelihood of each other. The first is that causes influence the likelihood of their symptoms; the second is that observing a symptom affects the likelihood of all of its possible causes. The idea behind the Bayesian network structure is to make a clear distinction between these two kinds of influence. Specifically, we construct a directed acyclic graph (DAG) that represents causality relationships among variables. The idea of a causality graph (or network) has proved to be very useful in several systems, particularly medical diagnosis systems such as CASNET [Weiss e al., 1978] and INTERNIST/CADUCEUS [Pople, 1982]. The variables in such a graph may be propositional (in which case they can take on the values TRUE and FALSE) or they may be variables that take on values of some other type (e.g., a specific disease, a body 180 Artificial Intelligence temperature, or a reading taken by some other diagnostic device). In Fig. 8.2(b). we show a causality graph for the wet grass example. In addition to the three nodes we have been talking about, the graph contains a new node corresponding to the propositional variable that tells us whether it is currently the rainy season. A DAG, such as the one we have just drawn, illustrates the causality relationships that occur among the nodes it contains. In order to use it as a basis for probabilistic reasoning, however, we need more information. In particular, we need to know, for each value of a parent node, what evidence is provided about the values that the child node can take on. We