original examples among them. We leave the details as an exercise. Network Representations It is also possible to build clusters of network representation structures and to learn structural descriptions of objects. For example, the concept of an arch can be learned in a manner similar to the above examples. In this case our training examples could be represented as something like the following where, as in earlier chapters, ako means a kind of. ((nodes (a b C) (links (ako a brick) (ako h brick) (ako c brick) (supports a C) (supports b c) +) Since an arch can support materials other than a brick, another positive example of the concept arch might he identical to the one above except for the object supported. say a wedge. Thus, substituting (ako c wedge) for (ako c brick) above we get a second positive instance of arch. These two examples can now he generalized into a single cluster by simply dropping the differing coniunctive ako terms to get the following. ((nodes (a b c) links (ako a brick) (ako I, brick) (supports a c) (supports b c)) 398 Learning by Induction Chap. 18 This is an over generalization. It can be corrected by a negative training example which uses some nonvalid object such as a sphere as the supported item. ((nodes (a b C) links (ako a brick) (ako b brick) (ako c sphere) (supports a C) (supports b C) ) This example satisfies the current description of an arch. However, it has caused an inconsistency. Therefore, the cluster must be split into a disjunctive description as was done before in the previous examples. The process is essentially the same except for the representation scheme. In a similar manner the concept of uncle can be learned with instances preserted and corresponding clusters created using a network representation as follows. ((nodes (a b c). links (ako a person) (ako b person) (ako c person) (male c) (parent of b a) (brother_ofcb) +) Again, we leave the remaining details as an exercise. Before leaving these examples, the reader should 