nkeys were placed in front of a set of typewriters and left alone long enough, then they would eventually produce all of the works of Shakespeare. 52 Artificial Intelligence 3.2 HILL CLIMBING Hill climbing is a variant of generate-and-test in which feedback from the test procedure is used to help the generator decide which direction to move in the search space. In a pure generate-and-test procedure, the test function responds with only a yes or no. But if the test function is augmented with a heuristic function? that provides an estimate of how close a given state is to a goal state, the generate procedure can exploit it as shown in the procedure below. This is particularly nice because often the computation of the heuristic function can be done at almost no cost at the same time that the test for a solution is being performed. Hill climbing is often used when a good heuristic function is available for evaluating states but when no other useful knowledge is available. For example, suppose you are in an unfamiliar city without a map and you want to get downtown. You simply aim for the tal] buildings. The heuristic function is just distance between the current location and the location of the tall buildings and the desirable states are those in which this distance is minimized. Recall from Section 2.3.4 that one way to characterize problems is according to their answer to the question, Ts a good solution absolute or relative? Absolute solutions exist whenever it is possible to recognize a goal state just by examining it. Getting downtown is an example of such a problem. For these problems, hill climbing can terminate whenever a goal state is reached. Only relative solutions exist, however, for maximization (or minimization) problems, such as the traveling salesman problem. In these problems, there is no a priori goal state. For problems of this sort, it makes sense to terminate hill climibing when there is no reasonable alternative state to move to. 3.2.1 Simple Hill 