 This is a move it can make, and it will do so going to a new state S, in which d, is on C. It can now move dp from peg A to peg B, thus achieving the goal of reducing D3. Now it looks at the difference D3, and revises the difference to D'3: disk d, is on peg C and not on peg B which can be reduced by moving d, from peg C to peg B. Having done all this, GPS is now in a position to solve goal G3 by moving disk d3 to peg C. After this, it goes on to reduce the revised differences Dj and D,, revised because the world may have changed in the interim period. The reader would recognize the similarity of the trace with the one for GSP, and in fact as observed earlier, GSP is a special case of GPS. If one were to use the GSP planner to solve the Towers of Hanoi and give it additional information on ordering of goal propositions (lowest blocks disks in goal set first), we would have in effect the algorithm described above. Problem decomposition by the MEA strategy can also be seen to generate an AND OR tree (Nilsson, 1971). At the AND level, the strategy breaks up the problem into two parts, which are ordered (see Figure 7.23). In the first part, it poses a goal to reduce the largest difference, and in the remaining part, it addresses the remaining differences. Reducing the largest difference itself could be done in several ways and each of them becomes a choice at the OR level. Having selected an operator, the MEA strategy recursively poses the problem of achieving the preconditions for that operator and the task of applying that operator when its preconditions are achieved. The reader would again have noticed the likeness in structure of the recursiveGSP algorithm in Figure 7.11 and Figure 7.23 showing the AND OR tree above. One of the many contributions of the pioneering work on GPS is the recursive approach to problem solving. The key to performance in GPS is an ordering of the differences to be addressed, and the availability of operators to reduce the differences. One 