ut we can also reconnect for example, visually impaired people can use that unused part of the brain for other tasks. As an example, blind people who learn to read Braille use the part of the brain that is used in vision for processing tactile information, doing it much better than the rest of us. The human brain thus is a prime example of a complex system arising out of interaction between many simple elements. 4.6 Emergent Systems Ever since people have begun to understand the mechanisms of life, and the interplay between semetic and genetic interaction, there have been efforts to simulate the process of emergent complex systems by putting together the basic set of simple parts and then letting nature do the rest . Prominent amongst these are efforts to mimic life in the field of artificial life. One such effort is described (Cliff and Grand, 1999; Grand, 2001) in which the authors adopts a bottom-up approach of putting together artificial creatures. The fact that systems of simple elements can come together to display complex behaviour was illustrated by the British mathematician John Conway in a cellular automaton that has come to be known as Conway's Game of Life, first publicized by Martin Gardner (Gardner, 1970). The Game of Life is played on an infinite two-dimensional grid of cells, each of which can be in one of two states, alive or dead. The health of a cell is directly influenced by the eight cells surrounding it. The automaton has simple rules for life and death: 1. Cells that are alive will continue to live if they have exactly two or three living cells in their neighbourhood. Otherwise, they die of loneliness (less than two neighbours around) or overcrowding (more than three neighbours alive). 2. Cells that are dead are born again if they are surrounded by exactly three living cells. These rules are applied simultaneously to the entire grid, generating a new population from an old one. The system is a cellular automaton. The rules are simple and the r