from the past to the future. Then a sentient agent may observe something, remember it, and exploit it in the future. Price ( fl Ak Time FIGURE 15.5 Notion of support is memory based. Another interesting example comes from the world of stock trading. A section of the market analysts, known for some reason as technical analysts , study historical stock prices and make predictions about what is likely to happen. Two common terms they use are support and resistance . By support, one means a price below which the stock is not likely to fall, because many buyers will come in. Likewise by resistance, one means a price above which a stock has difficulty rising, because sellers come to the fore. Interestingly, these levels are determined by experience. Figure 15.5 illustrates how a simple notion of past experience of a stock price might determine a support level. In practice, analysts use more sophisticated measures like the 50- and 200-day moving averages, or their crossovers, or more complex patterns with names like head and shoulders bottom or the candlesticks patterns invented by the Japanese for rice trade in the 17" century (see for example (Murphy, 1999), (Nison, 2001)). Technical analysis is essentially forecasting, based on patterns in time-series data. This is not limited to the stock market, and can be applied anywhere a pattern in a time series data is predictive of something of interest. Thus, the technical analysis of stock prices is essentially memory based. The other approach is known as fundamental analysis , and consists of evaluating the profits and growth of a company. It is essentially a model based approach. It may be observed that technical analysts are comfortable only when they are in familiar territory, and are unable to make predictions when a stock (price) breaks into uncharted territory. This is a characteristic of experience. Experiential knowledge, in general, is unable to deal with situations that have changed beyond recognition. A poignant ex