atsurface whichisalsotheminimumoff iff isquadratic.
Section4.3. Searchingwith Nondeterministic Actions 133
to be inside Romania and on dry land (rather than in the middle of lakes). The difficulty of
constrained optimization problemsdepends onthenatureof theconstraints andtheobjective
LINEAR function. Thebest-known category isthat of linear programming problems, in which con-
PROGRAMMING
straints must be linear inequalities forming a convex set 8 and the objective function is also
CONVEXSET
linear. Thetimecomplexityoflinearprogrammingispolynomialinthenumberofvariables.
Linear programming is probably the most widely studied and broadly useful class of
optimization problems. It is a special case of the more general problem of convex opti-
CONVEX mization, which allows the constraint region to be any convex region and the objective to
OPTIMIZATION
beanyfunction thatisconvexwithintheconstraint region. Undercertainconditions, convex
optimization problems are also polynomially solvable and may be feasible in practice with
thousands of variables. Several important problems in machine learning and control theory
canbeformulated asconvexoptimization problems(see Chapter20).
4.3 SEARCHING WITH NONDETERMINISTIC ACTIONS
In Chapter3,weassumedthattheenvironment isfullyobservable anddeterministic andthat
theagentknowswhattheeffectsofeachactionare. Therefore,theagentcancalculateexactly
which state results from any sequence of actions and always knows which state it is in. Its
percepts provide nonewinformation aftereachaction, although ofcourse theytelltheagent
theinitialstate.
Whentheenvironment iseitherpartially observable ornondeterministic (orboth), per-
ceptsbecomeuseful. Inapartiallyobservableenvironment, everypercepthelpsnarrowdown
thesetofpossible states theagent mightbein, thus makingiteasierfortheagent toachieve
itsgoals. Whentheenvironmentisnondeterministic, perceptstelltheagentwhichofthepos-
sible outcomes ofits actions hasactually occurred. In both cases, the future per