hapters, we should be in a position to best choose which representation methods to use for a given application, to see how automated reasoning can be programmed, and to appreciate how the essential parts of a system fit together. 4.1 INTRODUCTION The use of symbolic logic to represent knowledge is not new in that it predates the modern computer by a number of decades. Even so, the application of logic as a practical means of representing and manipulating knowledge in a computer was not demonstrated until the early 1960s (Gilmore, 1960). Since that time, numerous 47 4$ Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 systems have been in Wiemented with varying degrees of success. Today, First Order Predicate Logic (FOPI) or Predicate Calculus asit is sometimes called, has assumed one of the most important roles in Al for the representation of knowledge. A familiarity with FOPL is important to the student of Al for several reasons. First, logic offers the only formal approach to reasoning that has a sound theoretical foundation. This is especially important in our attempts to mechanize or automate the reasoning process in that inferences should be correct and logically Sound. Second, the structure of FOPL is flexible enough to permit the accurate representation of natural language reasonably well. This too is important in Al systems since most knowledge must originate with and be consumed by humans. To be effective, transformations between natural language and any representation scheme must be natural and easy. Finally. FOPL is widely accepted by workers in the Al field as one of the most useful representation methods. It is commonly used in program designs and widely discussed in the literature. To understand many of the Al articles and research papers requires a comprehensive knowledge of FOPL as well as some related logics. Logic is a formal method for reasoning. Many concepts which can be verbalized can be translated into symbolic representations which closely approximate the m