alogical Learning Process Analogue recognition A new pohiem r sttuati er'cui. recognized 1, as being similar to 3 previously encountered situation Sec. 20.2 Analogical Reasoning and Learning 419 Bus domain Target domain GE (1:1, Familiar situation New situation Figure 20.1 The analogical mapping process. 2. Access and recall: The similarity of the new problem to previously experienced ones serves as an index with which to access and recall one or more candidate experiences (analogues). 3. Selection and mapping: Relevant Parts of the recalled experiences are selected for their similarities and mapped from the base to the target domain. 4. Extending the mapped experience: The newly mapped analogues are modified and extended to fit the target domain situation. 5. Validation and generalization: The newly formulated solution is validated for its applicability through some form of trial process (such as theorem provers or simulation). If the validation is supported, a generalized solution is formed which accounts for both the old and the new situations. Implementation of the above process requires that several important issues be addressed. These issues are recurrent ones that appeared several times in other problems. First, there is the question of representation. For analogical reasoning, it is desirable that knowledge be stored in a form that is easily accessed, retrieved, and evaluated for possible use as a candidate solution. This implies that self-contained. interrelated pieces of knowledge comprising a particular situation, episode, proof. plan, concept, and other unit of knowledge should be indexed and stored for simultaneous recall. Object attributes and relationships should be bound together with identifiers and other descriptive information for ease of use. Second, it is desirable that an appropriate similarity measure be used to insure that only candidate analogues bearing a strong similarity to the new situation beconsidered. Third, it is important that the m