oncepts. People learn and grow their ontologies (by this we mean concepts and relations between them). Starting with a few concepts they refine them more and more and the ontology begets finer and finer concepts. A child may begin by calling all four legged creatures dogs, and then gradually over a period of time refine her knowledge of the animal world. Biology students take this knowledge to a much greater level of detail, botanists have a large ontology for plants, a car mechanic knows a lot about engines and gearboxes, an architect thinks in terms of spaces and materials, a musician lives in a world of notes and melodies. The (conceptual) world of the kid living in Missouri by the Mississippi River would be entirely different from the world of a mountain boy from the Kangra valley in Himachal Pradesh, which is different from that of a Griqua child in the Kalahari desert. The Malayalis of Kerala have a multitude of names for different types of what many of us simply call a banana , while the Inuits of Greenland have a bewildering variety of names for different kinds of what most of us simply call snow 2. The language that a society evolves is dependent on the concepts that the society needs to articulate. We all live in different worlds on this Earth. Our world is the mental spaces we create in our minds. What we have in our heads is knowledge about our world, or as some might say what we have in our heads is our world. The world is what we imagine it to be. Yet each of us manages to pack in a large amount of conceptual and factual knowledge that somehow springs to the fore whenever needed. 13.1 The Conceptual Domain: The Ontological Base The comment from Quine gives us a clue of what can exist in a domain, what can be the value of a variable. The domain in a powerful enough system must contain not only the real elements that one is reasoning about, but also reified elements that are created for the complex process of reasoning. We tend to think of a person as a 