ene and string them together into a MOP. The next time you visit the dentist, that MOP provides certain expectations, which are mostly met. You are able to deal with the situation easily and make inferences that you could not make the first time. If any expectation fails, this provides grounds for modifying the MOP. Now, suppose you later visit a doctor s office. As you begin to store episodic scenes, you notice similarities between these scenes and scenes from the dentist MOP. Such similarities provide a basis for using the dentist MOP to generate expectations. Multiple trips to the doctor will result in a doctor MOP that is slightly different from the dentist MOP. Later experiences with visiting lawyers and government officials will result in other MOPs. Ultimately, the structures shared by all of these MOPs will cause a generalized MOP to appear. Whenever you visit a professional s office in the future, you can use the generalized MOP to provide expectations. With MOPs, memory is both a constructive and reconstructive process. It is constructive because new experiences create new memory structures. It is reconstructive because even if the details of a particular episode are lost, the MOP provides information about what was likely to have happened. The ability to do this kind of reconstruction is an important feature of human memory. There are several MOP-based computer programs. CYRUS [Kolodner, 1984] is a program that contains episodes taken from the life of a particular individual. CYRUS can answer questions that require significant amounts of memory reconstruction. The IPP program [Lebowitz, 1983] accepts stories about terrorist attacks and stores them in an episodic memory. As it notices similarities in the stories, it creates general memory structures. These structures improve its ability to understand. MOPTRANS [Lytinen, 1984] uses a MOPbased memory to understand sentences in one language and translate them into another. 19.4 CASE-BASED REASONING We now tur