way computers do, and yet they manage to have an interaction with each other. The interaction is functional in nature. We consult websites like google.com and dictionary.com, and do not care how they arrived at the answers we were looking for. We can view the vastly diverse kinds of research being done in artificial intelligence as development of building blocks, on top of which more powerful systems will be implemented. It may take a while for each technique to mature, but eventually we hope we will be able to put them altogether to work on a common representation. And finally, if we have to build computer systems that interact intelligently with human beings, they have to be endowed with the faculties of language. Interest in written language processing, or text processing, has ballooned since the development of the World Wide Web. We look at some of the techniques in Chapter 16. Meanwhile, each of these approaches is leading to applications that exploit the particular developments. They may not be self aware intelligent systems, but they are serving useful purposes in different applications. While looking at different representations in the following chapters, we will also look at the use they have been put to, but we shall keep in mind that in the future, we would want to integrate them in one knowledge base. 1 In fact there is no it that will know anything at all. C See http: www.mathworks.in products matlab and http: Awww.scilab.org products scilab or http: www.r-project.org respectively. For example, in Second Life, a 3-D virtual world entirely built and owned by its residents. Since opening to the public in 2003, it has grown explosively and was inhabited by a total of 7, 965, 038 residents from around the globe, on July 11, 2007 -http: secondlife.com It has been commented that a bad bridge player is one who makes the same mistakes repeatedly; a good player is one who learns from her mistakes; and an expert is one who learns from the mistakes of other people