mpt to codify this information in a large knowledge base. In this chapter, we look more closely at the kinds of knowledge such a system must possess. In particular, we investigate how Common Sense 409 Dn i to understand and predict physical processes, how to model the behavior of materials, and how to reason about time and space. Memory is another key aspect to common sense. We look at how a memory can organize experiences, generalize them, and use them to solve new problems. 19.1 QUALITATIVE PHYSICS People know a great deal about the how the physical world works. Consider the three situations shown in Fig. 19.1. Anyone can predict what wil! happen in these scenarios. In . situation (a), the bal] will probably bounce on the ground several times, then come to rest. In situation (b), the bal! will travel upward | / and to the right, then downward. In situation (c), the ball will swing < a repeatedly from left to right, finally coming to rest in the middle. {a) (b) {c) Fig. 19.1 Three Physical Situations Now, how can we build a computer program to do this kind of reasoning? : The obvious answer is to program in the equations governing the physical motion of objects. These equations date back to classical physics and appear in every introductory physics textbook. For example, if the initial velocity of the bali in Fig. 19.1 (b) is vg, and the angle of its departure from the ground is 6, then the ball s position seconds after being Jaunched is given by: height = vg-t-sin(@)- Sat distance = vy: ft cos(@) We can do the same thing for Fig. 19.1(a) and (c), For Fig. 19.1(a), we need to know the coefficient of elasticity, and for Fig. 19.1(c), we need to know the length of the string, the initial velocity of the ball, and its original horizontal displacement. There are two problems with this approach. First, most people do not know these equations, yet they are perfectly capable of predicting what will happen in physical situations. Also, unlike equations, people do not need 