 set of confluences is, State: open, 4 4,,,. Confluences: P 0, 6P 0 State: working , 0 4 Ajgx.P 0 Confluences: P Q , dP 64 -50 0 State: working , 0 4 Ayax,P 0 Confluences: P Q , 6P- 60 0 State: working , 0 4 A,,,., P O Confluences: P Q , 6P 64 - 60 0 State: closed, 4 0 Confluences: Q 0, 60 0 17.2.4 ENVISION: Structure to Function The envision system designed by de Kleer and Brown (1984) is designed to reason about physical systems. A physical system is made up of components that are drawn from a library of component descriptions, each of which embodies certain behaviour. Each component has a set of terminals which allow it to connect to a conduit, which in turn is connected to the terminal of another component. Conduits are passive channels used only to transmit material or information between components. The basic idea behind ENVISION is that given that one has knowledge of how each component behaves, and how the components are connected together to form the device, one can infer the behaviour of the device. Component behaviour Device structure Device behaviour Component Library - L u Behavioral Prediction ( Topology Envision Ss a Causal Explanation 4 Figure 17.7 ENVISION: Component behaviour device structure Behaviour. (Figure adapted from (de Kleer and Brown, 1984)). For this to be possible, the system has to obey the no-function-instructure principle. The principle says that all the constituent behaviours contributing to the device are generated by the components only, and that the behaviour of each component must be described independent of what it is connected to. Consider modelling a light switch. A first attempt would model the switch as a relation between its position and the flow of current. When the switch is on, the current flows across it, and when it is off then it does not. One can connect the switch to a (fluorescent) light bulb and predict that it will emit light when the switch is on. However, it is possible that there is a power cut, and the bulb 