hey can be fully or
partiallyobservable, single-agent ormultiagent, deterministic orstochastic, episodicor
sequential, staticordynamic,discrete orcontinuous, and knownorunknown. The agent program implements the agent function. There exists a variety of basic
agent-program designs reflecting thekindofinformation madeexplicit andusedinthe
decision process. The designs vary in efficiency, compactness, and flexibility. The
appropriate designoftheagentprogram depends onthenatureoftheenvironment. Simplereflexagentsresponddirectlytopercepts, whereas model-basedreflexagents
maintain internal state to track aspects of the world that are not evident in the current
percept. Goal-based agents act to achieve their goals, and utility-based agents try to
maximizetheirownexpected happiness. Allagentscanimprovetheirperformance through learning.
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL AND HISTORICAL NOTES
The central role of action in intelligence the notion of practical reasoning goes back at
least as far as Aristotle s Nicomachean Ethics. Practical reasoning was also the subject of
Mc Carthy s(1958)influential paper Programswith Common Sense. Thefieldsofrobotics
andcontrol theory are, bytheirverynature, concerned principally withphysical agents. The
concept of a controller in control theory is identical to that of an agent in AI. Perhaps sur-
CONTROLLER
prisingly, AI has concentrated for most of its history on isolated components of agents question-answering systems, theorem-provers, vision systems, and so on rather than on
wholeagents. Thediscussion ofagents inthetextby Genesereth and Nilsson(1987) wasan
influentialexception. Thewhole-agentviewisnowwidelyacceptedandisacentralthemein
recenttexts(Pooleetal.,1998;Nilsson,1998;Padghamand Winikoff, 2004;Jones,2007).
Chapter1tracedtherootsoftheconceptofrationalityinphilosophyandeconomics. In
AI,theconceptwasofperipheralinterestuntilthemid-1980s,whenitbegantosuffusemany
60 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
discussions aboutthepropertechnical foundations ofthefield.