d into the distance measures described below as well. A commonly used distance measure in metric spaces is the Euclidean distance measure. Euclidean Distance disteuciidean (C1, C2) Ziet,n (M4; N2 ) )"? The Euclidean distance measures the length of the straight line between the two points, representing the cases in N-dimensional space. The above two measures in some sense aggregate the differences at the attribute level. We can also replicate the Max and Min similarity by corresponding distance measures. Min Distance Distmin (C1, C2) min ( n4;- nz) The Min distance measure is the smallest difference in any dimension between the two cases. Observe that it would correspond to the similarity aggregation function naxMax Distance Distmax (C4, C2) max ( 4; - nail) The Max distance measure treats the largest difference as the distance between the two cases. The following distance measure is a generalization of many of the functions described above. Minkowski Norm Distyinkowski (C1, C2) (Zizan maj - Nail PY The choice of the parameter P determines the nature of this distance measure. When P 1, it becomes the Manhattan distance; with P 2 it is the Euclidean distance and as P - it becomes the Max distance function. Seen in this N-dimensional space, the closer the two cases are the more similar they are. If our retrieval task is to find the most similar cases, then we can use the distance measure directly. The name nearest neighbour in fact reflects this criterion. If we need a similarity value, for example in threshold based retrieval then we need to map the distance value to a similarity value. While doing so, we need to know the maximum possible distance Dyy,x that two cases can have in the N-dimensional space. Then, sim(C4, Co) 1- dist(C,, C2) Dax Another way would be to normalize the attribute level distances to the range 0,1 and define the global distance function appropriately. This is left as an exercise for the reader. Ordered symbol type attributes where the values ar