table? In other words, what makes an agent good or bad,
intelligent orstupid? Weanswerthesequestions inthenextsection.
1 Iftheagentusessomerandomizationtochoose itsactions, thenwewouldhavetotryeachsequence many
timestoidentifytheprobabilityofeachaction. Onemightimaginethatactingrandomlyisrathersilly,butwe
showlaterinthischapterthatitcanbeveryintelligent.
36 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
A B
Figure2.2 Avacuum-cleanerworldwithjusttwolocations.
Perceptsequence Action A,Clean Right A,Dirty Suck B,Clean Left B,Dirty Suck A,Clean , A,Clean Right A,Clean , A,Dirty Suck
. .
. .
. . A,Clean , A,Clean , A,Clean Right A,Clean , A,Clean , A,Dirty Suck
. .
. .
. .
Figure 2.3 Partial tabulation of a simple agent function for the vacuum-cleaner world
shownin Figure2.2.
Beforeclosingthissection,weshouldemphasizethatthenotionofanagentismeantto
be a tool for analyzing systems, not an absolute characterization that divides the world into
agents and non-agents. One could view a hand-held calculator as an agent that chooses the
action of displaying 4 when given the percept sequence 2 2 , but such an analysis
wouldhardly aidourunderstanding ofthecalculator. Inasense, allareasofengineering can
be seen as designing artifacts that interact with the world; AI operates at (what the authors
consider to be) the most interesting end of the spectrum, where the artifacts have significant
computational resources andthetaskenvironment requires nontrivial decision making.
2.2 GOOD BEHAVIOR: THE CONCEPT OF RATIONALITY
Arational agent is one that does the right thing conceptually speaking, every entry in the
RATIONALAGENT
table for the agent function is filled out correctly. Obviously, doing the right thing is better
thandoingthewrongthing,butwhatdoesitmeantodotherightthing?
Section2.2. Good Behavior: The Conceptof Rationality 37
We answer this age-old question in an age-old way: by considering the consequences
of the agent s behavior. When an agent is plunked down in an environment, it generates a
seq