 and the probability weighted average (weighting nondoubles, twice as much as doubles) of the resulting states is computed. The twoply search process is illustrated in Figure 8.43 below. ( Pruned state Probability Weighted 21 dice rolls - eee best state FIGURE 8.43 The two-ply search in TD-Gammon 2.0. At one ply, some of the states are pruned. Then for each of the remaining states, the best move for each dice throw is picked by the second ply search. The values of the best states are averaged based on probability. The figure shows the process for one selected node at the first ply. TD-Gammon 2.0 and TD-Gammon 2.1 were trained over 300,000 and 1,500,000 self-games respectively and were comparable in performance to the best human players in 1992 (Robertie, 1992). TD-Gammon 3.0 had a three-ply search done as follows. The first ply was done as in the twoply search, but at the next level, another 2-ply search was done. For each of the best move selected in the second ply, a further 21 dice rolls were done and the weighted average computed in a similar manner. Thus, each value at the first ply level was backed up from 441 nodes. TDGammon 3.0 had 160 hidden units and was trained for over 6 million selfplay games (Tesauro, 2002), and averaged 10-12 seconds per move decision in 1998, running on a 400 MHz Pentium-ll processor. Evaluating Backgammon games is not easy because whether a move turns out to be good or not may be dependent on future dice throws. Such a problem also occurs in Scrabble 2 because the future score may depend upon the letters drawn from the bag. And playing a large number of games against humans for evaluation is not feasible. TD-Gammon introduced a different way of evaluating moves. That is the technique of rollout. A rollout is basically playing many game continuations from a given position, each time using randomly generated dice throws. The rollout score of a move is the average score obtained by the continuations commencing with that move. The move 