his, we need to identify the groundplane, which is done using shape-from-texture
methods.Fromthisinformation,andfromsomelikelypedestrians,wecanrecoverahorizon
asshowninthecenterimage.Ontheright,acceptablepedestrianboxesgiventhisgeometric
context. Noticethatpedestrianswhoarehigherinthescenemustbesmaller. Iftheyarenot,
thentheyarefalsepositives.Imagesfrom Hoiemetal.(2008)(cid:2)c IEEE.
feet are, and pedestrians whose feet are closer to the horizon in the image are farther away
fromthecamera(Figure24.22). Pedestrianswhoarefarther awayfromthecameramustalso
besmallerintheimage. Thismeanswecanruleoutsomedetectorresponses ifadetector
finds a pedestrian who is large in the image and whose feet are close to the horizon, it has
found an enormous pedestrian; these don t exist, so the detector is wrong. In fact, many or
mostimagewindowsarenotacceptable pedestrian windows,andneednotevenbepresented
tothedetector.
There are several strategies for finding the horizon, including searching for a roughly
horizontal line with a lot of blue above it, and using surface orientation estimates obtained
from texture deformation. A more elegant strategy exploits the reverse of our geometric
constraints. Areasonablyreliablepedestriandetectoris capableofproducingestimatesofthe
horizon, if there are several pedestrians in the scene at different distances from the camera.
Thisisbecause therelativescaling ofthepedestrians isacuetowherethehorizon is. Sowe
canextractahorizonestimatefromthedetector,thenusethisestimatetoprunethepedestrian
detector s mistakes.
956 Chapter 24. Perception
Iftheobjectisfamiliar,wecanestimatemorethanjustthedistancetoit,becausewhatit
lookslikeintheimagedependsverystronglyonitspose,i.e.,itspositionandorientationwith
respecttotheviewer. Thishasmanyapplications. Forinstance,inanindustrialmanipulation
task, the robot arm cannot pick up an object until the pose is known. In the case of rigid
objects, whether three-dimensional ortwo-dimensional, this problem hasasimple and well-
