natural way to map to and from natural language than do other representation schemes. Network representations give a pictorial presentation of objects, their attributes and the relationships that exist between them and other entities. In this section, we describe general associative 128 Structured Knowledge: Graphs. Frames, and Related Structures Chap. 7 CAN COLOR wing. Figure 7.2 Fragment of an ass(Iatje HAS-PARTS r,etworl, networks (also known as semantic networks) and conceptual graphs and give some of their properties. Associative networks are directed graphs with labeled nodes and arcs or arrows. The language used in constructing a network is based on selected domain primitives for objects and relations as well as some general primitives. A fragment of a simple network is illustrated in Figure 7.2. In the figure, a class of objects known as Bird is depicted. The class has some properties and a specific member of the class named Tweety is shown. The color of Tweety is seen to be yellow. Associative networks were introduced by Quillian (1968) to model the semantics of English sentences and words. He called his structures semantic networks to signify their intended use. He developed a system which "found" the meanings between words by the paths connecting them. The connections were determined through a kind of "spreading activation" between the two words. Quillian's model of semantic networks has a certain intuitive appeal in that related information is clustered and bound together through relational links. The knowledge required for the performance of some task is typically contained within a narrow domain or "semantic vicinity" of the task. This type of organization in some way, resembles the way knowledge is stored and retrieved in humans. The graphical portrayal of knowledge can also be somewhat more expressive than other representation schemes. This probably accounts for the popularity and the diversity of representation models for which they have been employ