tructures frequently used in matching operations. 10.3 MEASURES FOR MATCHING Next, we turn to the problem of comparing structures without the use of pattern matching variables. This requires consideration of measures used to determine the likeness or similarity between two or more structures, The similarit y between tx I) structures is .a measure of the degree of associaton or likeness between the ishiects attribut Cs and other characteristic parts. If the describing variables are qualit Etal Ic. a distance metric is often used to measure the proximity. Distance Metrics For all elements .x, v of the set E, the function ci is a metric if and only it a. d(x.x) 0 b. d(x,v) 0 c. d(x.v) = d(y,.r) d. d(x.v) 5 d(.t.:) 5d(:,v) The Minkowski metric is a general distance measure satisfying the jbc -sumptions, It is given by Sec. 10.3 Measures for Matching 195 v [' For the case p fhis metric is the familiar Euclidean distance When p = I. il,, is the so-called absolute or city block distance. Probabilistic Measures In stnie cases, the representation variables should he treated as random variables. Then one requires a measure of the distance between the variates, their distributions. or possibly between a variable and distribution. One such measure is the Niahalanobis distance which gives a measure of the separation between two distributions. (liven the random Vectors X and Y let C he their covariance matrix. Then the Niahalanuhis distance is given by 1) = X'C'Y where the prime C) denotes transpose (row vector) and C is the inverse of C. The X and V vectors may be adjusted fdr zero means by first subtracting the vector means u and ui.. Another popular probability measure is the product moment correlation r, given by = Cov(X.Y) r l Var(X)*Var(Y)1I' where Coy and Var denote covariance and variance respectively. The correlation r. which ranges between - I and + I, is a measure of similarity frequently used in vision applications. Other probabilistic measures often used in Al applic