e the (quite similar) weights of two adults. The range of baby weights is much smaller than the range of weights of adults.4 Thus, local similarity between two numeric values V; and V2 can be defined as, siMNumeric(V1,V2) 1 - (V4 Val) (Vinax Vin) where Vmax is the maximum value in the domain D and Vi, the minimum. By definition, SiMNumeric( Vmax, Vmin) 0 The expression V; V2 is the absolute value of the difference. This implies that the similarity is symmetric, and does not depend upon which one of the values is greater. There can be situations when one may want to define a similarity function that is not symmetric. Consider the task of recruiting pilots. Then the case may have a value V, for height that is acceptable for the job. Let the query have value V2 representing the height of an aspiring candidate. In such a situation, if V2 is greater that V, then one may want to assign a greater similarity value than if it were the other way round, assuming that one of the requirements for the job is that of a minimum height. Likewise, if a query states a desired price for a product then a lower price tag on a product may match better than a price tag higher by the same amount. String Attributes String type attributes have a value that is a sequence of characters from some alphabet. The alphabet could be 0, 1 for binary codes, the set C, A, G, T for chromosomes, or the set of letters a z for text attributes. A string may be treated as a symbol name for which a specific similarity function may apply. For example, the strings blue or Wednesday may be treated as symbols. A string may be treated as a piece of text, which may have its own similarity function. We will look at these options later. Otherwise, the similarity between two strings may be defined as a function of some notion of difference or distance defined on strings. Levenshtein Distance One measure of difference in strings is the notion of edit distance, which counts the number of changes one has to make to conver