teries
are related to preferences between the underlying states in those lotteries. To address this
issuewelistsixconstraints thatwerequire anyreasonable preference relationtoobey: Orderability: Given any two lotteries, a rational agent must either prefer one to the
ORDERABILITY
otherorelseratethetwoasequallypreferable. Thatis,the agentcannotavoiddeciding.
Aswesaidonpage490,refusing tobetislikerefusing toallowtimetopass.
Exactlyoneof(A B), (B A), or(A B)holds. Transitivity: Givenany three lotteries, ifan agent prefers Ato B and prefers B to C,
TRANSITIVITY
thentheagentmustprefer Ato C.
(A B) (B C) (A C). Continuity: If some lottery B is between A and C in preference, then there is some
CONTINUITY
probability pforwhichtherationalagentwillbeindifferentbetweengetting B forsure
andthelotterythatyields Awithprobability pand C withprobability 1 p.
A B C p p,A; 1 p,C B . Substitutability: If an agent is indifferent between two lotteries A and B, then the
SUBSTITUTABILITY
agentisindifferentbetweentwomorecomplexlotteriesthatarethesameexceptthat B
2 Weapologizetoreaderswhoselocalairlinesnolongerofferfoodonlongflights.
Section16.2. The Basisof Utility Theory 613
is substituted for A in one of them. This holds regardless of the probabilities and the
otheroutcome(s) inthelotteries.
A B p,A; 1 p,C p,B;1 p,C .
Thisalsoholdsifwesubstitute for inthisaxiom. Monotonicity: Suppose two lotteries have the sametwo possible outcomes, Aand B.
MONOTONICITY
If an agent prefers A to B, then the agent must prefer the lottery that has a higher
probability for A(andviceversa).
A B (p q p,A; 1 p,B q,A; 1 q,B ). Decomposability: Compound lotteries can be reduced to simpler ones using the laws
DECOMPOSABILITY
of probability. This has been called the no fun in gambling rule because it says that
two consecutive lotteries can be compressed into a single equivalent lottery, as shown
in Figure16.1(b).3 p,A; 1 p, q,B; 1 q,C p,A; (1 p)q,B; (1 p)(1 q),C .
These constraints are known as the axioms of utility