way that the syntactic grammar is defined, we illustrate the idea of compositional semantic rules in Fig. 15.18. want > Unit subject: RM, instance: Wanting object: RM; agent: RM, object: RM, print > Unit subject: RM, instance: Printing object: RM, agent: RM; object: RM, init > Unit for NP, plus modifying NP, extension: .init possessive marker 2 Unit for NP plus NP, s NP2 owner: NP, file 2 Unit instance: File-Struct Bill oad Unit instance: Person first-name: Bill Fig. 15.18 Some Semantic Interpretation Rules The first two rules are examples of verb-mapping rules, Read these rules as saying that they map from a partial syntactic structure containing a verb, its subject, and its object, to some unit with the attributes instance, agent, and object. These rules do two things. They describe the meaning of the verbs ( want or print ) themselves in terms of events in the knowledge base. They also state how the syntactic arguments of the verbs (their subjects and objects) map into attributes of those events. By the way, do not get confused by the use of the term object in two different senses here. The syntactic object of a sentence and its semantic object are two different things. For historical reasons (including the standard usage in case grammars as described in Section 15.3.2), they are often called the same thing, although this problem is sometimes avoided by using some other name, such as affected-entity, for the semantic object. Alternatively, in some knowledge bases, much more specialized names, such as printed-thing, are sometimes used as attribute names. Natural Language Processing 311 TCE RNC AS TTA The third and fourth rules are examples of modifier rules. Like the verb rules, they too must specify both their own constituent s contribution to meaning as well as how it combines with the meaning of the noun phrase or phrases to which it is attached. The last two rules are simpler. They define the meanings of nouns. Since nouns do not usually take arguments, these 