is even now described as the single most important treatise on the
physics and physiology of human vision (Nalwa, 1993, p.15). In 1879, Wundt opened the
first laboratory of experimental psychology, at the University of Leipzig. Wundt insisted
on carefully controlled experiments in which his workers would perform a perceptual oras-
sociative task while introspecting on their thought processes. The careful controls went a
long way toward making psychology a science, but the subjective nature of the data made
it unlikely that an experimenter would ever disconfirm his or her own theories. Biologists
studying animal behavior, onthe otherhand, lacked introspective data and developed an ob-
jectivemethodology,asdescribedby H.S.Jennings(1906)inhisinfluentialwork Behaviorof
the Lower Organisms. Applying this viewpoint to humans, the behaviorism movement, led
BEHAVIORISM
by John Watson(1878 1958), rejectedanytheoryinvolvingmentalprocessesonthegrounds
Section1.2. The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence 13
thatintrospection couldnotprovidereliableevidence. Behavioristsinsistedonstudyingonly
objective measures of the percepts (or stimulus) given to an animal and its resulting actions
(or response). Behaviorism discovered a lot about rats and pigeons but had less success at
understanding humans.
COGNITIVE Cognitive psychology, which views the brain as an information-processing device,
PSYCHOLOGY
can be traced back at least to the works of William James (1842 1910). Helmholtz also
insisted that perception involved a form of unconscious logical inference. The cognitive
viewpoint waslargely eclipsed by behaviorism in the United States, but at Cambridge s Ap-
plied Psychology Unit, directed by Frederic Bartlett (1886 1969), cognitive modeling was
able to flourish. The Nature of Explanation, by Bartlett s student and successor Kenneth
Craik (1943), forcefully reestablished the legitimacy of such mental terms as beliefs and
goals, arguing that they are just as scientific as, say, us