ividually applicable in the two planning graphs, which are constructed for the two possible worlds. The real world, on the other hand, is one of the two worlds, w, and wo, but we do not know which. When we try and extract a plan keeping track of interference across worlds, we are unable to select the two dunk actions together, because they are now mutex as they delete the precondition Clogged(t) required by both, and removed by both. Consequently, we can only choose one of them. However, both actions appear in both planning graphs, because irrespective of whether the package contains the bomb or not, it has the effect of clogging the toilet. The two aspects of the dunk action are as follows: (:action dunk2 parameters (?p - package ?t -toilet) tprecondition (and (not (clogged ?t)) (in bomb ?p)) s:effect (and (clogged ?t) (diffused bomb) )) and, (:action dunk2parameters (?p - package ?t -toilet) sprecondition (not (clogged ?t)) :effect clogged ?t)) Further, since two possible worlds are in fact complete information variations of a single real world with incomplete information, the two aspects may induce each other in different planning graphs, if the preconditions hold. That is, if we choose the Dunk2 (p1, t) action in w4, then we have to choose the Dunk2-(p1, t) action in wz, because we can only choose the actions and not the possible world we are in. Once dunking p, is chosen as the action then its relevant aspects have to be chosen in both possible worlds. The situation is depicted in Figure 10.13 below. In the planning graph for each possible world, we have two dunk actions, one for each package. The specific aspects of these actions that appear depend upon the possible world. But irrespective of which possible world we are in, the aspects of the two actions are mutex, as discussed above. Thus, in each possible world, we can only select one dunk action, and having chosen one, we are then compelled to choose the corresponding induced action in the other world. We a