s hoped that by imitating the learning mechanisms of animals. they might build learning machines from very simple parts. Such hopes proved elusive. However, the field of neural network learning has seen a resurgence in recent years, partly as a result of the discovery of powerful new learning algorithms. Chapter 18 describes these algorithms in detail. While neural network models are based on a computational brain metaphor. a number of other learning techniques make use of a metaphor based on evolution. In this work, learning occurs through a selection process that begins with a large population of random programs. Learning algorithms inspired by evolution are called genetic algorithms (Holland, 1975; de Jong, 1988; Goldberg. 1989]. GAs have been dealt with in greater detail in Chapter 23. SUMMARY The most important thing to conclude from our study of automated learning is that learning itself is a problemsolving process. We can cast various learning strategies in terms of the methods of Chapters 2 and 3. Learring by taking advice Initial state: high-level advice ~ Final state: an operational rule ~ Operators: unfolding definitions, case analysis, matching, etc. Leaming from examples Initial state: collection of positive and negative examples ~ Final state: concept description Search algorithms: candidate elimination. induction of decision wees e Learning in problem solving Initia] state: solution traces to example problems Final state: new heuristics for solving new problems efficiently Heuristics ror search: generalization, explanation-based learning. utility considerations Discovery Initial state: some environment Final state: unknown Heuristics for search: interestingness, analogy, etc. A learning machine is the dream system of AI. As we have seen in previous chapters, the key to intelligent behavior is having a lot of knowledge. Getting all of that knowledge into a computer is a staggering task. One hope of sidestepping the task is to let computers acquire know