hematical model
of the neuron devised by Mc Culloch and Pitts (1943). Roughly speaking, it fires when a
linearcombinationofitsinputsexceedssome(hardorsoft) threshold that is,itimplements
728 Chapter 18. Learningfrom Examples
Bias Weight
a 0 1 w a j g(in j )
0,j
g
in
w j
i,j
a a
i j
Input Input Activation Output
Output
Links Function Function Links
Figure(cid:2)18.19 Asimplemathematicalmodelforaneuron. Theunit soutputactivationis
n
aj g(
i 0
wi,jai),whereaiistheoutputactivationofunitiandwi,j istheweightonthe
linkfromunititothisunit.
a linear classifier of the kind described in the preceding section. A neural network is just a
collection of units connected together; the properties of the network are determined by its
topology andtheproperties ofthe neurons. Since 1943, much more detailed and realistic models have been developed, both for
neurons and for larger systems in the brain, leading to the modern field of computational
COMPUTATIONAL neuroscience. On the other hand, researchers in AI and statistics became interested in the
NEUROSCIENCE
moreabstractproperties ofneuralnetworks, suchastheirabilitytoperformdistributed com-
putation, totolerate noisyinputs, andtolearn. Although weunderstand nowthatotherkinds
of systems including Bayesian networks have these properties, neural networks remain
one of the most popular and effective forms of learning system and are worthy of study in
theirownright.
18.7.1 Neural network structures
Neural networks are composed of nodes or units (see Figure 18.19) connected by directed
UNIT
links. Alinkfromunititounitj servestopropagatetheactivationa fromitoj.8 Eachlink
LINK i
also hasanumeric weightw associated withit, which determines the strength andsign of
ACTIVATION i,j
theconnection. Justasinlinearregression models,eachunithasadummyinputa 1with
WEIGHT 0
anassociated weightw . Eachunitj firstcomputesaweightedsumofitsinputs:
0,j
(cid:12)n
in w a .
j i,j i
i 0
ACTIVATION Thenitappliesanactivation functiong tothissumtoderivetheoutput:
FU