rpose, what has taken place in the scene, why any visible or implied events occurred, what is likely to happen, and what the objects in the scene are capable of doing. Figure 14.3 presents an example of a complex scene that humans can interpret well with little effort. It is the objective of many researchers in computer vision to build systems capable of interpreting, describing, and reasoning about scenes of this type in real time. Unfortunately, we are far from achieving this level of competency. To he sure, some interesting vision systems have been developed, but they are quite crude compared to the elegant vision systems of humans. Like natural language understanding, computer vision interpretation is a difficult problem. The amount of processing and storage required to interpret and describe a complex scene can be enormous. For example, a single image for a high resolution aerial photograph may result in some four to nine million pixels (bytes) of information and require on the average some 10 to 20 computations per pixel. Thus, when several frames must be stored during processing, as many as 100 megabytes of storage may be needed, and more than 100 million computations performed, "0 1*1 SIDE By GARY LARSON Figure 14.3 Ernpte of a cepks n. (fil E PAR SIDE UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE. Repted by AU i.hts.reserved.i 290 Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 14.2 IMAGE TRANSFORMATION AND LOW-LEVEL PROCESSING In this section, we examine the first stages of processing. This includes the process of forming an image and transforming it to an array of numbers which can then be operated on by a computer. In this first stage, only local processing is performed on the numbers to reduce noise and other unwanted picture elements, and to accentuate object boundaries. Transforming Light Energy to Numbers The first step in image processing requires a transformation of light energy to numbers, the language of computers. To accomplish this, some form of light sensitive transducer is 