ruments. Inc. (TI) in the early 1980s. These shells are rule-based building tools patterned after the MYCIN system architecture and developed to run on a PC as well as on larger systems such as the TI Explorer. The largest and most versatile of the Personal Consultant family is Personal Consultant Plus. Personal Consultant Plus permits the use of structures called frames (different Sec. 15.6 Knowledge System Building Tools 351 from the frames of Chapter 7) to organize functionally related production rules into subproblem groups. The frames are hierarchically linked into a tree structure which is traversed during a user consultation. For example, a home electrical appliance diagnostic system might have subframes of microwave cooker, iron, blender, and toaster as depicted in Figure 15.12. When diagnosing a problem, only the relevant frames would be matched, and the rules in each frame would address only that part of the overall problem. A feature of the frame structure is that parameter property inheritance is supported from ancestor to descendant frames. The system supports certainty factors both for parameter values and for complete rules. These factors are propagated throughout a chain of rules used during a consultation session, and the resultant certainty values associated with a conclusion are presented. The system also has an explanation capability to show how a conclusion was reached by displaying all rules that lead to a conclusion and why a fact is needed to fire a given rule.. .'n nterctive dialog is c 4 e htween user and system during a consultation .es,j Oti . The . :.wm pi umpt . . ith English statements prov i J v rhe hvel.. oper. Menu windows with selectable colors provide the user parameter value selections. A help facility is also available so the developer can provide explanations and give general assistance to the user during a consultation session. A system editor provides a number of helpful facilities to build, store, and print a knowledge base.