equery,
RELEVANT
fortheparticularinformation needexpressedinthequery.
4. A presentation of the result set. This can be as simple as a ranked list of document
PRESENTATION
titles or as complex as a rotating color map of the result set projected onto a three-
dimensional space,rendered asatwo-dimensional display.
BOOLEANKEYWORD The earliest IR systems worked on a Boolean keyword model. Each word in the document
MODEL
collection istreated as a Boolean feature that is true ofadocument ifthe word occurs in the
document and false if it does not. So the feature retrieval is true for the current chapter
but false for Chapter 15. The query language is the language of Boolean expressions over
2 Wedenote asearch query as query . Squarebrackets areused ratherthan quotation markssothat wecan
distinguishthequery twowords from twowords .
868 Chapter 22. Natural Language Processing
features. A document is relevant only if the expression evaluates to true. For example, the
query information AN Dretrieval istrueforthecurrentchapterandfalsefor Chapter15.
This model has the advantage of being simple to explain and implement. However,
it has some disadvantages. First, the degree of relevance of a document is a single bit, so
there is no guidance as to how to order the relevant documents for presentation. Second,
Boolean expressions are unfamiliar to users who are not programmers or logicians. Users
find it unintuitive that when they want to know about farming in the states of Kansas and
Nebraska they need to issue the query farming (Kansas OR Nebraska) . Third, it can be
hard to formulate anappropriate query, even foraskilled user. Suppose wetry information
AND retrieval AND models AND optimization and get an empty result set. We could try information ORretrieval ORmodels ORoptimization , butifthat returns too manyresults,
itisdifficulttoknowwhattotrynext.
22.3.1 IR scoring functions
Most IRsystemshaveabandonedthe Booleanmodelandusemodelsbasedonthestatisticsof
BM25SCORING wordcounts. We