ften
optimal for both A and B to attack C rather than each other, lest C destroy each of them
individually. In this way, collaboration emerges from purely selfish behavior. Of course,
as soon as C weakens under the joint onslaught, the alliance loses its value, and either A
or B could violate the agreement. In some cases, explicit alliances merely make concrete
what would have happened anyway. In other cases, a social stigma attaches to breaking an
alliance,soplayersmustbalancetheimmediateadvantageofbreakinganallianceagainstthe
long-term disadvantage of being perceived as untrustworthy. See Section 17.5 for more on
thesecomplications.
If the game is not zero-sum, then collaboration can also occur with just two players.
Suppose,forexample,thatthereisaterminalstatewithutilities(cid:16)v 1000,v 1000(cid:17)and
A B
that1000 isthehighest possible utility foreachplayer. Thentheoptimalstrategy isforboth
players to do everything possible to reach this state that is, the players will automatically
cooperate toachieveamutuallydesirable goal.
5.3 ALPHA BETA PRUNING
The problem with minimax search is that the number of game states it has to examine is
exponential in the depth of the tree. Unfortunately, we can t eliminate the exponent, but it
turnsoutwecaneffectivelycutitinhalf. Thetrickisthatitispossibletocomputethecorrect
minimaxdecisionwithoutlookingateverynodeinthegametree. Thatis,wecanborrowthe
idea of pruningfrom Chapter 3 to eliminate large parts of the tree from consideration. The
ALPHA BETA particular technique weexamine iscalled alpha beta pruning. Whenapplied toastandard
PRUNING
minimax tree, it returns the same move as minimax would, but prunes away branches that
cannotpossibly influencethefinaldecision.
Consideragainthetwo-plygametreefrom Figure5.2. Let sgothroughthecalculation
of the optimal decision once more, this time paying careful attention to what we know at
eachpoint intheprocess. Thestepsareexplained in Figure5.5. Theoutcome isthatwecan
identify theminimax