raltextbooksandatleast
one encyclopedia (Wilson and Keil, 1999). Wewilloccasionally comment onsimilarities or
differences between AItechniques andhumancognition. Realcognitive science, however,is
necessarily based on experimental investigation of actual humans or animals. We will leave
thatforotherbooks, asweassumethereaderhasonlyacomputerforexperimentation.
In the early days of AI there was often confusion between the approaches: an author
would argue that an algorithm performs well on a task and that it is therefore a good model
of human performance, or vice versa. Modern authors separate the two kinds of claims;
this distinction has allowed both AI and cognitive science to develop more rapidly. Thetwo
fields continue to fertilize each other, most notably in computer vision, which incorporates
neurophysiological evidence intocomputational models.
4 Chapter 1. Introduction
1.1.3 Thinking rationally: The lawsofthought approach
The Greekphilosopher Aristotlewasoneofthefirsttoattempttocodify rightthinking, that
is, irrefutable reasoning processes. His syllogisms provided patterns forargument structures
SYLLOGISM
thatalwaysyieldedcorrectconclusionswhengivencorrectpremises forexample, Socrates
is a man; all men are mortal; therefore, Socrates is mortal. These laws of thought were
supposed togoverntheoperation ofthemind;theirstudyinitiated thefieldcalledlogic.
LOGIC
Logiciansinthe19thcenturydevelopedaprecisenotationforstatementsaboutallkinds
ofobjects intheworldandtherelations amongthem. (Contrastthiswithordinaryarithmetic
notation, which provides only for statements about numbers.) By 1965, programs existed
that could, inprinciple, solve anysolvable problem described inlogical notation. (Although
ifnosolution exists, theprogram mightloop forever.) Theso-called logicist tradition within
LOGICIST
artificialintelligence hopestobuildonsuchprogramstocreateintelligent systems.
There are two main obstacles to this approach. First, it is not easy to take informal
knowledge and 