ncerned with existence thousands of years ago, as illustrated in the adjoining box. The Greek philosopher Aristotle espoused a method of defining general categories as the genus and the different subcategories based on the differentiae. In the 3" century AD, the philosopher Porphyry drew the tree reproduced (as shown in Figure 14.4) by Peter of Spain in 1329 (Sowa, 2006). Arthropoda (more than a million species) ue Ly Pauropoda Chelicerata nS 5 f , Gristacea Diplopoda nN "NI (eeabs, (millipedes) Pycnogonida ! Xiphosura lobsters, 5 . - (Seaspiders) (horseshoe crabs) shrimp,...) 5 J Chilopoda n (centipedes) Arachnida (spiders, P yysanura (silverfish) Hymenoptera Siphonaptera (bees) H (fleas) 4 Isoptera a i (termites) Diptera(fties, Anoptura ! Homoptera . feagee mosquitoes) dicey (cicadas) Odonata cd n (dragonflies) Lepidoptera Coleoptera (butterflies) (beetles) FIGURE 14.3 A small part of the tree of life categorizing small life forms, often collectively called insects. The edges represent s-A relation. The leaves in the figure are in fact internal nodes in the tree of life. Supreme genus: Substance oO Differentiae: Material Immatenal Subordinate genera: Shy Sh Differentiae : oe Inanim Subordinate genera: Living Mineral Differentiae: Sensitive Insensitive Proximate genera: a iy Differentiae: Rational Irrational Species: gan Beast oT N Individuals: Socrates Plaw Anstotle ct. FIGURE 14.4 Tree of Porphyry, as drawn by Peter of Spain (Sowa, 2006). Box 14.1: The Categories or Padartha Vaisheshika, or VaiSesika, is one of the six Hindu schools of Vedic systems of philosophy of India (Chattopadhyaya, 1986), (Radhakrishnan, 1923). It has been closely associated with the Hindu school of logic, Nyaya (see Chapter 12). The Vaisheshika school of philosophy defines a taxonomy of all possible concepts in terms of seven individual characteristics. The root of the taxonomy is padartha (the meaning of the word), or any word that represents a concept. The concepts can be further specia