entiretrainingset,ithastobeconsistentwitheachexampleinthetraining
set. What would it mean for it to be inconsistent with an example? There are two possible
waysthatthiscanhappen:
770 Chapter 19. Knowledgein Learning Anexample canbeafalsenegative forthehypothesis, ifthehypothesis saysitshould
FALSENEGATIVE
benegativebutinfactitispositive. Forinstance, thenewexample X described by
13
Patrons(X ,Full) Hungry(X ) ... Will Wait(X )
13 13 13
wouldbeafalsenegativeforthehypothesis h givenearlier. From h andtheexample
r r
description, we can deduce both Will Wait(X ), which is what the example says,
13
and Will Wait(X ), which is what the hypothesis predicts. The hypothesis and the
13
examplearethereforelogically inconsistent. Anexample can be a false positive forthe hypothesis, if the hypothesis says it should
FALSEPOSITIVE
bepositivebutinfactitisnegative.1
If an example is afalse positive or false negative fora hypothesis, then the example and the
hypothesis arelogically inconsistent witheachother. Assumingthattheexampleisacorrect
observation offact,thenthehypothesis canberuledout. Logically, thisisexactlyanalogous
to the resolution rule of inference (see Chapter 9), where the disjunction of hypotheses cor-
responds toaclause andtheexample corresponds toaliteral thatresolves against oneofthe
literalsintheclause. Anordinarylogicalinferencesystemthereforecould,inprinciple,learn
from the example by eliminating one or more hypotheses. Suppose, for example, that the
exampleisdenotedbythesentence I ,andthehypothesisspaceish h h h . Thenif
1 1 2 3 4
I isinconsistentwithh andh ,thelogicalinferencesystemcandeducethenewhypothesis
1 2 3
spaceh h .
1 4
We therefore can characterize inductive learning in a logical setting as a process of
gradually eliminating hypotheses that are inconsistent with the examples, narrowing down
the possibilities. Because the hypothesis space is usually vast (oreveninfinite inthe case of
first-order logic), we do not recommend trying to build a learning sy