 address these questions. Following that is a survey of some AI books that may be of interest and a summary of the chapter. 1.2 THE UNDERLYING ASSUMPTION At the heart of research in artificial intelligence lies what Newell and Simon [1976] call the physical symbol system hypothesis. They define a physical symbol system as follows: A physical symbol system consists of a set of entities, called symbols, which are physical patterns that can occur as components of another type of entity called an expression (or symbol structure). Thus, a symbol structure is composed of a number of instances (or tokens) of symbols related in some physical way (such as one token being next to another). At any instant of time the system will contain a collection of these symbol structures. Besides these structures, the system also contains a collection of processes that operate on expressions to produce other expressions: processes of creation, modification, reproduction and destruction. A physical symbol system is a machine that produces through time an evolving coilection of symbol structures. Such a system exists in a world of objects wider than just these symbolic expressions themselves. They then state the hypothesis as The Physical Symbol System Hypothesis. A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means for general intelligent action. This hypothesis is only a hypothesis. There appears to be no way to prove or disprove it on logical grounds. So it must be subjected to empirical validation. We may find that it is false. We may find that the bulk of the evidence says that it is true. But the only way to determine its truth is by experimentation. Computers provide the perfect medium for this experimentation since they can be programmed to simulate any physical symbol system we like. This ability of computers to serve as arbitrary symbol manipulators was noticed very early in the history of computing. Lady Lovelace made the following observation about Babbage s proposed 