s of problems in the chosen domain. The whole process may take as many as tens of person years. Penny Nit, an experienced knowledge engineer at Stanford University, has described some useful practices to follow in solving acquisition problems through a sequence of heuristics she uses. They have been summarized in the book The Fifth Generation by Feigenbaum and Mc Corduck (1983) as follows. You can't be your on expert. By examining the process of your own expertise ou risk becoming like the Centipede who got tangled up in her own legs and siopped dead when she tried to figure out how she moved a hundred legs in harmony. From the beginning, the knowledge engineer must count on throwing efforts away. Writers make drafts, painters make preliminary sketches; knowledge engineers are no different. The problem must be well chosen. Al is a young field and isn't rcad to take on evers problem the world has to offer. Expert systems work best when the problem is well bounded, which is computer talk to describe a problem for which large amounts of specialized knowledge may be needed, but not a general knowledge of the world. If you want to do any serious application you need to meet the expert more than half way; if he's had no exposure to computing, your job will be that much harder. If none of the tools you normally use works, build a new one. Dealing with anything but facts implies uncertainty. Heuristic knowledge is not hard and fast and cannot be treated as factual. A weighting procedure has to be built into O ex o p n er 'r t i engineer S e y d O it e o n r Krtowiedge I Figure 15.11 The knowledge Know I I acquisition process. Sec. 15.6 Knowledge System Building Tools 349 the expert system.to allow for expressions such as "1 strongly believe that ..." or "The evidence suggests that...... A high-performance program, or a program that will eventually be taken over by the expert for his own use, must have very easy ways of allowing the knowledge to be modified so that new infor