n commented that a bad bridge player is one who makes the same mistakes repeatedly; a good player is one who learns from her mistakes; and an expert is one who learns from the mistakes of other people. What is feasible can only be decided when the actions are attempted in the real world. A more accurate model would help an w a a agent to estimate this feasibility more accurately. There have been anecdotes from Japan of humans becoming emotionally bonded to virtual pets like Tamagotchi, rushing home to feed them, and feeling real sadness if they were to die. Web based virtual pets are popular with children. See http: www.adoptme.com , http: Awww.marapets.com , and www.neopets.com . It has also been narrated by Pamela McCorduck (McCorduck 1973) that in the age of moving statues in medieval Europe, people were prone to ascribe humanlike thinking qualities to statues that could nod or shake their heads on being asked a question. The term comes from Philosophy, and it means the study of being or existence. It is a study of notions of reality. A quest for answering questions about what the world is about, and questions about ourselves in this world. Computer scientists adopted the term when they wanted to represent, and reason with, such knowledge, particularly in the context where programs need to talk to each other and exchange such information; a situation which has become more and more prevalent with the advent of the internet and the worldwide web. Bugs Bunny is a popular carrot chewing animated rabbit created by Warner Brothers. Some people argue that the kind of learning done in artificial neural networks is similar to our acquisition of procedural knowledge that cannot be articulated. 10 But what is reality? We only know the world as it exists in our heads. Physicists have been splitting matter for more than a century without yet being able to construct a theory of the universe. 11 Buddhist monks too have long asserted otherwise. Modern psychology also says that w