IF: Condition-1 and Condition-2 and Condition-3 THEN: Take Action-4 IF: The temperature is greater than 200 degrees, and The water level is low THEN: Open the safety valve. A&B&C&D E&F Each rule represents a small chunk of knowledge relating to the given domain of expertise. A number of related rules collectively may correspond to a chain of inferences which lead from some initially known facts to some useful conclusions. When the known facts support the conditions in the rule's left side, the conclusion or action part of the rule is then accepted as known (or at least known with some degree of certainty). Examples of some typical expert system rules were described in earlier sections (for example see Sections 4.9. 6.5, and 10.6). Sec. 15.2 Rule-Based System Architectures 331 USER I EXPERT SYSTEM Case rence history file Input wledge Working ase memory rning dtile i^v Figure 15.1 Componenls of a tpica I expert sytcrn Inference in production systems is accomplished by a process of chaining through the rules recursively, either in a forward or backward direction, until a conclusion is reached or until failure occurs. The selection of rules used in the chaining process is determined by matching current facts against the do ain knowledge or variables in rules and choosing among a candidate set of rules the ones that meet some given criteria, such as specificity. The inference process is typically carried out in an interactive mode with the user providing input parameters needed to complete the rule chaining process. 'The main components of a typical expert system are depicted in Figure 15.1 The solid lined boxes in the figure represent components found in most systems whereas the broken lined boxes are found in only a few such systems. The Knowledge Base The knowledge base contains facts and rules about some specialized knowledge domain. An example of a simple knowledge base giving family relationships is illustrated in Figure 15.2. The rules in this figure are given in 