son
NEWTON RAPHSON
method. Thisisageneral technique forfindingrootsoffunctions that is,solvingequations
of the form g(x) 0. It works by computing a new estimate for the root x according to
Newton sformula
x x g(x) g (cid:2) (x).
To find a maximum or minimum of f, we need to find x such that the gradient is zero (i.e., f(x) 0). Thus, g(x) in Newton s formula becomes f(x), and the update equation can
bewritteninmatrix vector formas
x x H 1(x) f(x),
f
where H (x) is the Hessian matrix of second derivatives, whose elements H are given
HESSIAN f ij
by 2f x x . For our airport example, we can see from Equation (4.2) that H (x) is
i j f
particularly simple: theoff-diagonal elements are zero and thediagonal elements forairport
i are just twice the number of cities in C . A moment s calculation shows that one step of
i
the update moves airport i directly to the centroid of C , which is the minimum of the local
i
expression forf from Equation (4.1).7 Forhigh-dimensional problems, however, computing
then2entriesofthe Hessianandinvertingitmaybeexpensive,somanyapproximateversions
ofthe Newton Raphson methodhavebeendeveloped.
Local search methods suffer from local maxima, ridges, and plateaux in continuous
statespacesjustasmuchasindiscrete spaces. Randomrestartsandsimulatedannealing can
be used and are often helpful. High-dimensional continuous spaces are, however, big places
inwhichitiseasytogetlost.
CONSTRAINED Afinaltopicwithwhichapassingacquaintance isusefulisconstrainedoptimization.
OPTIMIZATION
Anoptimizationproblemisconstrainedifsolutionsmustsatisfysomehardconstraintsonthe
values of the variables. Forexample, in ourairport-siting problem, wemight constrain sites
7 Ingeneral,the Newton Raphsonupdatecanbeseenasfittingaquadraticsurfacetof atxandthenmoving
directlytotheminimumofthatsurface whichisalsotheminimumoff iff isquadratic.
Section4.3. Searchingwith Nondeterministic Actions 133
to be inside Romania and on dry land (rather than in the middle of lakes). The difficulty of
