have performed as an alternative way of finding a screwdriver. We can also define other speech acts, such as A REQUEST B to perform R: REQUEST(A, B, R} precondition: KNOW-WHAT(A, LOCATION(B)) CAN-PERFORM(B, R) WILLING-TO-PERFORM(B, R) postcondition: WILL(PERFORM(B, R)) 15.4.5 Conversational] Postulates Unfortunately, this analysis of language is complicated by the fact that we do not always say exactly what we mean. Instead, we often use indirect speech acts, such as Do you know what time it is? or It sure is cold in 320 Artificial Intelligence here. Searle [1975] presents a linguistic theory of such indirect speech acts. Computational treatments of this phenomenon usually rely on models of the speaker s goals and of ways that those goals might reasonably be achieved by using language. See, for example, Cohen and Perrault [1979]. Fortunately, there is a certain amount of regularity in people s goals and in the way language can be used to achieve them. This regularity gives rise to a set of conversational postulates, which are rules about conversation that are shared by all speakers. Usually these rules are followed. Sometimes they are not, but when this happens, the violation of the rules communicates something in itself. Some of these conversational postulates are: Sincerity Conditions For a request by A of B to do R to be sincere, A must want B to do R, A must assume B can do R, A must assume B is willing to do R, and A must believe that B would not have done R anyway. If A attempts to verify one of these conditions by asking a question of B, that question should normally be interpreted by B as equivalent to the request R. For example, A: Can you open the door? Reasonableness Conditions For a request by A of B to do R to be reasonable, A must have a reason for wanting R done, A must have a reason for assuming that B can do R, A must have a reason for assuming that B is willing to do R, and A must have a reason for assuming that B was not already planning to do R. 