) Figure 14.5 Threshold transformation of an Image. best (:l),,ice of I values are often made apparent For example, a histogram tisn the rations between intensity levels that have a relatively with two or more clear sepa high frequency of occurrence will usually suggest the best threshold levels for object identification and separation. This is seen in Figure 14.6. Smoothing is a form a Next, we turn to the question of image smoothing. digital filtering. It is used to reduce noise and other unwanted features and to enhanc certain image features. Smoothing is a form of image transformation that tends tc eliminate spikes and flaten widely fluctuating intensity values. Various forms of smoothing techniques have been employed, including local averaging, the use of models, and parametric form fitting. One common method of smoothing is to replace each pixel in an arra) witl' a weighted average of the pixel and its neighboring values. This can be accomplishe with the use of filter masks which use some configuration of neighboring pixe values to compute a smoothed replacement value. Two typical masks consist o either four or eight neighboring pixels whose intensity values are used in the weightin Potaible threthold Fregoenes Cray Ieel intensity Figure 14.6 Histogram of tight intensity levels. Courtesy of Kenneth Chapman and INTELLEDEX. INC. I --- q Sec. 14.2 Image Transformation and Low-Level Processing computation. If smoothing is being performed at pixel location (x,y), the neighboring pixels are at the eight locations: (x + l y - , I), (x + l,y), (x + l,y + I), (x,y + I), (x,y - I), (x - l,y - 1), (x - l,y), and (x - l,y - I). From these, either the four immediate neighbors (top, bottom, left, and right) or all eight neighbors are sometimes chosen. Examples of smoothing masks for four and eight neighborhood pixels are as follows: 1142 3/32 1/321 1/8 I 3/32 j 3/32 1/8 . 1/2 1/8 [1/32 3/32 l/32J 1/8 The underlined number in each array identifies the pixel being smoothed. (