. Can we talk of intelligence in a specific domain? What about the Turing test then? Can we hope to get knowledge in all domains? Or should we settle for domain-specific intelligence? What about humans? The Renaissance man was the master of all, but since then knowledge has exploded, and human beings are themselves specialized. The most valued humans (neurosurgeons, economists, doctors in general, and scientists) are those that are masters of a few topics from the vast sea of ideas. Let us say that we do indeed want to elicit all knowledge held by all human beings into a gigantic computer system. What would the modus operandi be for this exercise? There are various design questions that need to be answered. The first is regarding representation: How should the knowledge be represented? This is important because, apart from the knowledge that has been standardised and formalised and can be coded easily, there is other knowledge that is not so explicit. For example, notions of beauty, of creativity, and ideas related to emotion. How does one encode the joy of sitting on a beach and witnessing a sunset, or listening to a favourite piece of music? How does the artist describe how she imagines and paints the sunset, or compose the music. It has been said that there is knowledge that we can articulate, but there is also knowledge that we are unable to articulate. Marvin Minsky has observed that some tasks that are easy for humans, like tying shoelaces, are quite complex for machines. This would make the task of transferring such knowledge to computers a challenging task. The question is: Should we first design the knowledge representation schema that all machines would use to encode knowledge, like one does while constructing ontologies, or should one take a leaf out of the human way of doing things? Let the intelligent agent have its own representation scheme, and let it acquire knowledge from others through natural language. There would still be issues consistency and a