oblems are likely to be much smaller in complexity. A similar kind of reasoning may happen when using public transport. If one had to travel to a village in Himachal Pradesh in India, one might first construct (retrieve) a travel plan to its capital Simla, and then find a bus onwards to the village. Case based reasoning with adaptation may thus be combined with a means ends, analysis mode of reasoning (see also Chapter 7). Traditionally, researchers have described two forms of adaptation (Riesbeck and Schank, 1989), (Kolodner, 1993). Structural Adaptation In structural adaptation, the solution of a case is directly modified to obtain the solution for the new problem. Derivational Adaptation Derivational adaptation may be employed when the case also contains some steps that are used to arrive at the solution. During adaptation, these steps are executed again with parameters from the current problem. We also distinguish between two kinds of reasoning tasks, Analytic and Synthetic (Plaza and Arcos, 2002). FIGURE 15.34 A multi-modal path finder may retrieve a case shown with the shaded circles. Adaptation may mean finding paths using search to near nodes on the retrieved path. 15.3.1 Analytic Reasoning Here, the problem is to analyze some problem situation and arrive at some judgment. A typical analytic task is classification. For example, one may want to classify a person as unhealthy or healthy based on data of age, height and weight. The case base would constitute of a set of data points for which some authoritative source has provided the class label. Given the data of a new person, a CBR system would retrieve the K nearest neighbours and perhaps treat the class label of each retrieved case as a vote for the label of the query case. The class label for the new case could be computed as a simple majority vote. This is also known as compositional adaptation. In compositional adaptation, the solution is composed from one or more retrieved solutions. Another way of comb