t the various types of triangles? CHAPTER 10 STRONG SLOT-AND-FILLER STRUCTURES Int the 1960s and 19705, students frequently asked, Which kind of representation is best? and T usually replied that we d need more research... But now 1 would reply: To solve really hard problems, we W have to use several different representations, This is because each particular Kind of data structure has ts own virtues and deficiencies, and none by itself would seem adequate for all the different functions involved with what we call common sense. Minsky, Marvin (1927-), American cognitive scientist The slot-and-filler structures described in the previous chapter are very general, Individual semantic networks and frame systems may have specialized links and inference procedures, but there are no hard and fast rules about what kinds of objects and links are good in general for knowledge representation. Such decisions are left up to the builder of the semantic network or frame system. The three structures discussed in this chapter, conceptual dependency, scripts, and CYC, on the other hand, embody specific notions of what types of objects and relations are permitted. They stand for powerful theories of how AI programs can represent and use knowledge about common situations. 10.1 CONCEPTUAL DEPENDENCY Conceptual dependency (often nicknamed CD) is a theory of how to represent the kind of knowledge about events that is usually contained in natural language sentences. The goal is to represent the knowledge in a way that Facilitates drawing inferences from the sentences. * Is independent of the language in which the sentences were originally stated. Because of the two concerns just mentioned, the CD representation of a sentence is built not out of primitives corresponding to the words used in the sentence, but rather out of conceptual primitives that can be combined to form the meanings of words in any particular language. The theory was first described in Schank [1973] and was further develop