s brother though the relation between the two in the respective conceptualizations is quite different. Some of the sentences in the list above are inherently ambiguous in the sense that with is used in. In sentence 8 the boy could be an attribute of the girl (which could have been mentioned to distinguish between two girls on the scene) or it could have been like in sentence 9 where the boy is a co-actor. Likewise in sentence 7 the rifle could have been an instrument in the shooting act, or it could have been an attribute of the girl, while the shooting could even have been done with a camera. Even in sentence 5, the spoon could have been an attribute of the preceding PP (ice cream), for example in response to a question Which ice cream did Abasi eat? . Finally in some world it might be conceivable to imagine that each bottle in sentence 2 is filled with a nano machines that work automatically. While word sense disambiguation can sometimes be done with information available within the sentence, and it is a matter of finding efficient ways of doing so, when a sentence is inherently ambiguous it is only information from its context that can help resolve the ambiguity. One needs knowledge from all sources, syntax, semantics and pragmatics to be able to quickly make sense of natural language. Trying to order the three processes in some fixed manner is only likely to be futile. We shall look at language processing in more detail in Chapter 16. 13.7.5 Expectations: Other Sources The semantic parser sketched above is based on the idea of meeting expectations generated by the meaning of the words seen so far. However, sentences in a language rarely occur in isolation. There are cues or expectations that arise from the context. This may be the topic of discussion for the sentence and may bring world knowledge to the fore. This may be the discourse itself. If the words in an utterance are part of a dialogue between agents, then the expectation of a complete conceptualization 