eved
bythisandbywhatmeansthiswillbeachieved,tilltheycometothefirstcause,...and
whatislastintheorderofanalysisseemstobefirstintheorderofbecoming. Andifwe
comeonanimpossibility,wegiveupthesearch,e.g.,ifweneedmoneyandthiscannot
begot;butifathingappearspossiblewetrytodoit.
Aristotle s algorithm was implemented 2300 years later by Newell and Simon in their GPS
program. Wewouldnowcallitaregression planning system(see Chapter10).
Goal-based analysis is useful, but does not say what to do when several actions will
achievethegoalorwhennoactionwillachieveitcompletely. Antoine Arnauld(1612 1694)
correctly described a quantitative formula for deciding what action to take in cases like this
(see Chapter16). John Stuart Mill s(1806 1873) book Utilitarianism (Mill,1863)promoted
theideaofrationaldecisioncriteriainallspheresofhumanactivity. Themoreformaltheory
ofdecisions isdiscussed inthefollowingsection.
1.2.2 Mathematics Whataretheformalrulestodrawvalidconclusions? Whatcanbecomputed? Howdowereasonwithuncertain information?
Philosophersstakedoutsomeofthefundamentalideasof AI,buttheleaptoaformalscience
required a level of mathematical formalization in three fundamental areas: logic, computa-
tion,andprobability.
Theidea of formal logic can be traced back to the philosophers of ancient Greece, but
itsmathematicaldevelopmentreallybeganwiththeworkof George Boole(1815 1864),who
8 Chapter 1. Introduction
worked out the details of propositional, or Boolean, logic (Boole, 1847). In 1879, Gottlob
Frege(1848 1925) extended Boole slogictoincludeobjectsandrelations, creatingthefirst-
order logic that is used today.4 Alfred Tarski (1902 1983) introduced a theory of reference
thatshowshowtorelatetheobjectsinalogictoobjectsintherealworld.
The next step was to determine the limits of what could be done with logic and com-
putation. The first nontrivial algorithm is thought to be Euclid s algorithm for computing
ALGORITHM
greatest common divisors. Theword algorithm (and the idea of studying them) 