 among many other applications. Statistical techniques, such as multivariate analysis, provide an alternative approach to building expertlevel systems. Unfortunately, statistical methods do not produce concise rules that humans can understand. Therefore it is difficult for them to explain their decisions. For highly structured problems that require deep causal chains of reasoning, learning techniques are presently inadequate. There is, however, a great deal of research activity in this area, as we saw in Chapter 17. SUMMARY DEGPANTORAER BABIN AAA Since the mid-1960s, when work began on the earliest of what are now called expert systems, much progress has been made in the construction of such programs. Experience gained in these efforts suggests the following conclusions: These systems derive their power from a great deal of domain-specific knowledge, rather than from a single powerful technique. In successful systems, the required knowledge is about a particular area and is well defined. This contrasts with the kind of broad, hard-to-define knowledge that we call common sense. It is easier to build expert systems than ones with common sense. An expert system is usually built with the aid of one or more experts, who must be willing to spend a great deal of effort transferring their expertise to the system. e Transfer of knowledge takes place gradually through many interactions between the expert and the system. The expert will never get the knowledge right or complete the first time. The amount of knowledge that is required depends on the task. It may range from forty rules to thousands. The choice of control structure for a particular system depends on specific characteristics of the system. It is possible to extract the nondomain-specific parts from existing expert systems and use them as tools for building new systems in new domains. 430 Artificial Intelligence TL TTT TE Four major problems facing current expert systems are: e Brittleness Because expert systems on