ifiers. Does this sentence say, as we have assumed in writing the logical formula above, that for each person there exists someone to whom he or she is loyal, possibly a different someone for everyone? Or does it say that there exists someone to whom everyone is loyal (which would be written as Ay : Vx : loyalto(x,y))? Often only one of the two interpretations seems likely, so people tend to favor it. . People only try to assassinate rulers they are not loyal to. Vax : Vy : person(x) /\ ruler(y) A tryassassinate(x,y) > ~ loyalto(x,y) This sentence, too, is ambiguous. Does it mean that the only rulers that people try to assassinate are those to whom they are not loyal (the interpretation used here), or does it mean that the only thing people try to do is to assassinate rulers to whom they are not loyal? In representing this sentence the way we did, we have chosen to write try to assassinate as a single predicate. This gives a fairly simple representation with which we can reason about trying to assassinate. But using this representation, the connections between trying to assassinate and trying to do other things and between trying to assassinate and actually assassinating could not be made easily. If such connections were necessary, we would need to choose a different representation. . Marcus tried to assassinate Caesar. tryassassinate (Marcus, Caesar) 102 Artificiol Intelligence stu cctevito n L Eee A RR SALON From this brief attempt to convert English sentences into logical statements, it should be clear how difficult the task is. For a good description of many issues involved in this process, see Reichenbach [1947]. : Now suppose that we want to use these statements to answer the question Was Marcus loyal to Caesar? It seems that using 7 and 8, we should be able to prove that Marcus was not loyal to Caesar (again ignoring the distinction between past and present tense). Now let s try to produce a formal proof, reasoning backward from the desired goal: aloyalto(Mar