rthesamecarsinthesamemovie.
288 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
Inafirst-orderlogicreasoningsystemthatuses CNF,wecanseethatthelinguisticform (A B) and A B are the same because we can look inside the system and see
that the two sentences are stored as the same canonical CN Fform. Can wedo that with the
human brain? Until recently the answer was no, but now it is maybe. Mitchell et al.
(2008) put subjects in an f MRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) machine, showed
themwordssuchas celery, andimagedtheirbrains. Theresearcherswerethenabletotrain
acomputerprogramtopredict,fromabrainimage,whatwordthesubjecthadbeenpresented
with. Given two choices (e.g., celery or airplane ), the system predicts correctly 77 of
the time. The system can even predict at above-chance levels for words it has never seen
an f MRI image of before (by considering the images of related words) and for people it has
never seen before (proving that f MRI reveals some level of common representation across
people). This type of work is still in its infancy, but f MRI (and other imaging technology
such as intracranial electrophysiology (Sahin et al., 2009)) promises to give us much more
concrete ideasofwhathumanknowledge representations are like.
From the viewpoint of formal logic, representing the same knowledge in two different
ways makes absolutely no difference; the same facts will be derivable from either represen-
tation. Inpractice, however, onerepresentation mightrequire fewerstepstoderiveaconclu-
sion, meaning that a reasoner with limited resources could get to the conclusion using one
representation but not the other. For nondeductive tasks such as learning from experience,
outcomes are necessarily dependent on the form of the representations used. We show in
Chapter 18 that when a learning program considers two possible theories of the world, both
ofwhichareconsistentwithallthedata,themostcommonwayofbreakingthetieistochoose
themostsuccincttheory andthatdependsonthelanguageusedtorepresentth