wledge may include one or more of the following. Experts in the domain of interest Textbooks Technical papers Databases Reports The environment We will consider machine learning as a specialized form of acquisition. It is any method of autonomous knowledge creation or refinement through the use of computer programs. Table 16.1 depicts several types of knowledge and possible representation structures which by now should be familiar. In building a knowledge base, it is TABLE 16.1 TYPES OF KNOWLEDGE AND POSSIBLE STRUCTURES Type of Knowledge Examples of Srruciure Facts (snow color shj Ie) Relations (Iather_ot john bill) - Rules (if (Icmperature>200 degrees) (open relief valve)) Concepts (forall (x y) (if (and (male x) ((brother of ) (or (father of y) (mother of y)I) (uncle x y)i Procedures, Plans, etc. Sec. 16.2 Types of Learning 359 necessary to create or modify structures such as these for subsequent use by a performance component (like a theorem prover or an inference engine). To be effective, the newly acquired knowledge should be integrated with existing knowledge in some meaningful way so that nontrivial inferences can be drawn from the resultant body of knowledge. The knowledge should, of course, be accurate. nonredundant, consistent (noncontradictory), and fairly complete in the sense that it is possible to reliably reason about many of the important conclusions for which the system was intended. 16.2 TYPES OF LEARNING We all learn new knowledge through different methods, depending on the type of material to be learned, the amount of relevant knowledge we already possess, and the environment in which the learning takes place. It should not come as a surprise to learn that many of these same types of learning methods have been extensively studied in Al. In what follows, it will be helpful to adopt a classification or taxonomy of learning types to serve as a guide in studying or comparing differences among them. One can develop learning taxonomies based on the typ