ontent of the book works in the real world. Implementing Al to comprehend its feasibility in the real world is of utmost importance. History stands witness to the initial failures, thanks to the notion that Al-based techniques once coded could be easily bolted onto existing general-purpose hardware. Robotics is one domain where such failures were prominently seen. Resources in terms of computing speed, memory, time and speed of the xiv Preface to the Third Edition actuating device all play a vital role in embedding AI into the real world. This chapter is thus aimed at instilling cortdence and motivating the reader (student) to implement what he has learnt from the book. It describes the use of Prolog and its syntax using typical programs. The new world is the world of intelligent agents. This chapter describes LPA Prolog s Chimera Agent Engine and its use to realise a multi-agent scenario, Readers can now use the AI methodologies discussed in this book to tweak and make these agent programs intelligent. Apart from the addition of these four chapters, some changes have heen made to a few existing ones of the older edition. Chapter 1 now talks of Stevan Harnad s point of Symbol Grounding trying to put down the concept of a symbol in the Physical Symbol System Hypothesis. Some arguments are provided to enlighten the user that the hypothesis does not seem to be the ultimate. Chapter 15 on Natural Language Processing has now two sections, one describing Statistical Approaches to Language Processing and another on Spell Checking. These sections help the reader to think beyond just grammar-based language-processing systems and explore techniques which seem more akin to how human beings learn a language. Chapter 18 on Connectionist Models has an additional modest section on Kohonen Networks, The new edition caters broadly to undergraduate students in Computer Science who are new to the concept of AI. Al novices are encouraged to read Parts I and II and also Chapter 25 to in