n of tile J if it is currently in the final position of tile . Tile 0 stands for the empty tile. The macro moves are composed from four primitive moves R, D, L, and U which stand for moving an appropriate tile right, down, left or up. Note that the notation is unambiguous, because only one tile can make each of the primitive moves at any time. For example, in the position in Figure 7.24, move L means tile 4 is moved into the empty place, and U means tile 6 is moved. The shaded squares can be interpreted as follows. If square at row and column J is shaded, it means that the move to reduce the difference for tile J does not interfere with the location (position of tile in the goal state). In other words, the difference for tile is invariant to the reduction of difference for tile J. In general, if we have operators such that we can arrange the invariance between differences in a triangular form then one can reduce the differences in a serial order (see note by G Ernst (1987) for another example of the triangle property for the Fool s Disk puzzle). Figure 7.24 The Goal State for which the macro Table 7.2 is constructed. In the above table, the differences are arranged in a triangular invariance order. This means that if we reduce the differences in the given order then the problem can be solved in a linear fashion. Thus, the differences to be reduced are in the order from tile 0 to tile 6, by the end of which the solution is reached. In other words, given any starting position, one can find a solution for the above goal in the Eight-puzzle by bringing tile 0 into place, bringing tile 1 into place, and so on using at each point the appropriate macro from the table. The reader would have observed that these are not the only macro moves that are possible. For example, the above table does not tell us what to do if we want to reduce the difference for tile 4, if it is in the position of tile 2. The point is that such a macro is not required for completeness, because by the