r,andtexture. Martin,Fowlkes,and Malik(2004)usedfeaturesbased
on differences in histograms of brightness, color, and texture values measured in these two
halfdisks, andthen trained aclassifier. Forthistheyused a datasetofnatural images where
humanshadmarkedthe groundtruth boundaries, andthegoaloftheclassifierwastomark
exactlythoseboundaries markedbyhumansandnoothers.
Boundariesdetectedbythistechniqueturnouttobesignificantlybetterthanthosefound
usingthesimpleedge-detectiontechniquedescribedpreviously. Butstilltherearetwolimita-
tions. (1)Theboundarypixelsformedbythresholding P (x,y, )arenotguaranteed toform
b
closed curves, sothisapproach doesn t deliverregions, and (2)thedecision making exploits
onlylocalcontextanddoesnotuseglobalconsistency constraints.
942 Chapter 24. Perception
(a) (b) (c) (d)
Figure24.11 (a)Originalimage. (b)Boundarycontours,wherethehigher the Pb value,
the darker the contour. (c) Segmentation into regions, correspondingto a fine partition of
theimage. Regionsarerenderedintheirmeancolors. (d)Segmentationintoregions,corre-
spondingtoa coarserpartitionoftheimage,resultinginfewerregions. (Courtesyof Pablo
Arbelaez,Michael Maire,Charles Fowlkes,and Jitendra Malik)
Thealternativeapproachisbasedontryingto cluster the pixelsintoregionsbasedon
their brightness, color, and texture. Shi and Malik (2000) set this up as a graph partitioning
problem. The nodes of the graph correspond to pixels, and edges to connections between
pixels. Theweight W ontheedgeconnectingapairofpixelsiandjisbasedonhowsimilar
ij
thetwopixelsareinbrightness, color, texture, etc. Partitionsthatminimizeanormalized cut
criterion are then found. Roughly speaking, the criterion for partitioning the graph is to
minimize the sum of weights of connections across the groups of pixels and maximize the
sumofweightsofconnections withinthegroups.
Segmentation based purely on low-level, local attributes such as brightness and color
cannot be expected to deliver the final correct boundaries of all