sm in which each agent is
effectively requiredtomaximizeglobalutility, butcando sobymakingalocaldecision. For
this example, a carbon tax would be an example of a mechanism that charges for use of the
commonsinawaythat,ifimplemented well,maximizesglobalutility.
Asafinalexample,considertheproblemofallocatingsomecommongoods. Supposea
citydecidesitwantstoinstallsomefreewireless Internet transceivers. However,thenumber
oftransceivers theycanaffordislessthanthenumberofneighborhoods thatwantthem. The
city wants to allocate the goods efficiently, to the neighborhoods that would value them the
(cid:2)
most. That is, they want to maximize the global utility V v . The problem is that if
i i
theyjustaskeachneighborhood council howmuchdoyouvaluethisfreegift? theywould
allhaveanincentive tolie,andreportahighvalue. Itturns outthereisamechanism, known
VICKREY-CLARKE- as the Vickrey-Clarke-Groves, or VCG, mechanism, that makes it a dominant strategy for
GROVES
eachagent toreport itstrueutility andthatachieves anefficient allocation ofthegoods. The
VCG
trick is that each agent pays a tax equivalent to the loss in global utility that occurs because
oftheagent s presenceinthegame. Themechanism workslike this:
1. Thecenteraskseachagenttoreportitsvalueforreceivinganitem. Callthisb .
i
2. Thecenterallocatesthegoodstoasubsetofthebidders. Wecallthissubset A,anduse
thenotation b (A) to meanthe result to iunder this allocation: b if iisin A(that is, i
i i
is a winner), and 0 otherwise. The center chooses A to maximize total reported utility
(cid:2)
B b (A).
i i
3. The center calculates (for each i) the sum of the reported utilities for all the winners
(cid:2)
except i. Weusethe notation B i j(cid:14) i
b
j
(A). Thecenteralso computes (foreach
i)theallocation thatwould maximizetotal global utility ifiwerenotinthegame; call
thatsum W i .
4. Eachagentipaysataxequalto W i B i .
684 Chapter 17. Making Complex Decisions
In this example, the VCG rule means that each winner would pay a tax equal to t