o appeal for assistance to another. For example, part of the process of performing the syntactic analysis of the sentence Is the glass jar peanut butter? is deciding how to form two noun phrases out of the four nouns at the end of the sentence (giving a sentence of the form Is the x y? ). All of the following constituents are syntactically possible: glass, glass jar, glass jar peanut, jar peanut butter, peanut butter, butter. A syntactic processor on its own has no way to choose among these, and so any decision must be made by appealing to some model of the world in which some of these phrases make sense and others do not. If we do this, then we get a syntactic structure in which the constituents glass jar and peanut butter appear. Thus although it is 288 Artificial Intelligence often useful to separate these five processing phases to some extent, they can all interact in a variety of ways, making a complete separation impossible. Specifically, to make the overall language understanding problem tractable, it will help if we distinguish between the following two ways of decomposing a program: The processes and the knowledge required to perform the task The global control structure that is imposed on those processes In this chapter, we focus primarily on the first of these issues. It is the one that has received the most attention from people working on this problem. We do not completely ignore the second issue, although considerably less of substance is known about it. For an example of this kind of discussion that talks about interleaving syntactic and semantic processing, see Lytinen [1986]. With that caveat, let s consider an example to see how the individual processes work. In this example, we assume that the processes happen sequentially. Suppose we have an English interface to an operating system and the following sentence is typed: T want to print Bill s .init file. Morphological Analysis Morphological analysis must do the following things: srg Pull apart the 