d
profitof C (n 1) C n C n(n 1)dollars.
Nowwecancalculate theexpected profit,giventhesurveyinformation:
1 (n 1)C n 1 C C n.
n n n n(n 1)
Therefore, the company should be willing to pay the seismologist up to C n dollars for the
information: theinformation isworthasmuchastheblockitself.
The value of information derives from the fact that with the information, one s course
of action can be changed to suit the actual situation. One can discriminate according to the
situation, whereas without the information, one has to do what s best on average over the
possible situations. In general, the value of a given piece of information is defined to be the
difference inexpected valuebetweenbestactionsbeforeandafterinformation isobtained.
10 Inthe United States,theonlyquestionthatisalwaysaskedbeforehandiswhetherthepatienthasinsurance.
630 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
16.6.2 A general formulaforperfect information
Itissimpletoderiveageneralmathematicalformulaforthevalueofinformation. Weassume
that exact evidence canbeobtained about the value ofsomerandom variable E (that is, we
j
VALUEOFPERFECT learn E e ),sothephrase valueofperfectinformation(VPI)isused.11
INFORMATION j j
Let the agent s initial evidence be e. Then the value of the current best action is
definedby
(cid:12)
EU( e) max P(RESULT(a) s (cid:2) a,e)U(s (cid:2) ),
a
s(cid:3)
andthevalueofthenewbestaction(afterthenewevidence E e isobtained) willbe
j j
(cid:12)
EU( ej e,e
j
) max P(RESULT(a) s (cid:2) a,e,e
j
)U(s (cid:2) ).
a
s(cid:3)
But E isarandom variable whosevalue is currently unknown, sotodetermine thevalue of
j
discovering E ,givencurrentinformation ewemustaverageoverallpossiblevaluese that
j jk
wemightdiscoverfor E ,usingourcurrentbeliefsaboutitsvalue:
j
(cid:31)
(cid:12)
VPI (E ) P(E e e)EU( e,E e ) EU( e).
e j j jk ejk j jk
k
To get some intuition for this formula, consider the simple case where there are only two
actions,a anda ,fromwhichtochoose. Theircurrentexpectedutilitiesare U and U . The
1 2 1 2