uence (lateral walking
isagoodchoice). Wetunethedetector tohavealowfalsepositive rate,soweknowwhenit
responds that we have found a real person; and because wehave localized their torso, arms,
legs,andhead,weknowwhatthesesegmentslooklike.
24.6 USING VISION
If vision systems could analyze video and understood what people are doing, we would be
able to: design buildings and public places better by collecting and using data about what
peopledoinpublic;buildmoreaccurate,moresecure,andlessintrusivesurveillancesystems;
buildcomputersportscommentators;andbuildhuman-computerinterfacesthatwatchpeople
and react to their behavior. Applications for reactive interfaces range from computer games
thatmakeaplayergetupandmovearoundtosystemsthatsaveenergybymanagingheatand
lightinabuilding tomatchwheretheoccupants areandwhattheyaredoing.
Some problems are well understood. If people are relatively small in the video frame,
andthebackgroundisstable,itiseasytodetectthepeoplebysubtractingabackgroundimage
from the current frame. If the absolute value of the difference is large, this background
BACKGROUND subtraction declares the pixel to be a foreground pixel; by linking foreground blobs over
SUBTRACTION
time,weobtainatrack.
Structuredbehaviors likeballet,gymnastics, ortaichihavespecificvocabularies ofac-
tions. Whenperformed againstasimplebackground, videos oftheseactionsareeasytodeal
with. Background subtraction identifies the major moving regions, and we can build HOG
features(keepingtrackofflowratherthanorientation)topresenttoaclassifier. Wecandetect
consistent patterns of action with a variant of our pedestrian detector, where the orientation
featuresarecollected intohistogram bucketsovertimeaswellasspace(Figure24.25).
Moregeneral problems remain open. Thebig research question isto link observations
of the body and the objects nearby to the goals and intentions of the moving people. One
source ofdifficulty isthat welack asimple vocabulary ofhuman behavior. Behavior isalot
962 Chapter 2