ively it remains the same. The qualitative state will change when one of the variables reaches a different qualitative value. This could happen when the magnitude qmag reaches a landmark in the direction it is moving to. This could also happen if qdir changes. That is, it stops moving (or starts moving if it was steady). In addition, different variables could change at the same time. In the above problem, the variable amtA is moving towards 0. It could reach that landmark (at least when seen in isolation) or it could stop decreasing (if qdir becomes std). Likewise, amtB could reach BMAX, or stop increasing. The variable pressureA could reach 0, but its value is correlated to amtA, and if it happens, both will reach 0 at the same instant. Its counterpart pressureB is headed towards , and one could always exclude that from the set of possibilities. Finally pAB could move towards 0. Observe that if that happens, then pressureA would become equal to pressureB, the flow flowAB would reach 0 as well, and the variables pressureA, pressureB, pAB, flowAB, amtA and amtB would all become steady. There are three distinct possibilities and their combinations left. 1. amtA 0 This implies pressureA 0. This in turn implies that pAB (- , 0). But that is not possible without going through the qualitative state in which pAB 0, a landmark it is headed to. So this possibility can be excluded. 2. pAB--0 As discussed above, all variables move to a steady state. 3. amtB BMAX At this time point, if pAB 0, the fluid overflows the tank (amtB BMAX, std ), amtA (0,AMAX), dec and as a consequence total.qdir - dec. Thus, the constraint Constant(total) does not hold anymore and the model breaks down. And the reasoner can recognize this fact. The three distinct feasible successor states therefore may be reached when, 1. pAB 0 2. pAB 0 and amtB BMAX 3. amtB BMAX, in which case the constraint model of Figure 17.10 no longer applies and the system moves to a different operational state. The qualitativ