hould be felt after the event has happened. But between the instant the event happens and the instant when we want to evaluate the fluent nothing else should have happened. Hence, if we want to model a delayed response, we will need to include additional conditions in the left hand side along the lines of the ones in the inertia axiom below. For a detailed description the reader is referred (Mueller, 2006). The Inertia Axiom Using the above definitions we can infer that the value of a fluent remains the same if it remains under the commonsense law of inertia and is not clipped by some event. IA: HoldsAt)f, t)) (t; t2) PersistsBetween(t, f, tg) Clipped(t, f, t2)) D HoldsAt(f, tz) 13.5.2 Reasoning Different kinds of reasoning can be done with actions, events and states in a changing world (Shanahan, 1999). Prediction Given an initial state and a narrative of events or actions, to deduce the fluents that are true in the final state. In the context of planning this is also known as projection. Postdiction Given a final state and a series of moves that resulted in it, the task is to deduce the initial state. Abduction Given the initial state and the final state, to find out the events that would transform the initial state into the final state. This is also planning, the task of finding the actions that transform the given state into the final one. Diagnosis may also involve finding events that resulted in something going wrong. Note that more than one solution may exist. One may be called upon to do a combination of the above tasks. The task of a detective investigating a crime is to find out both what was true in the intermediate past, and what happened after that. A simpler version of such deductive reasoning has been described as retrograde analysis by Raymond Smullyan in his delightful collection of chess mysteries (Smullyan, 1979; 1992). A simple example of such a problem is given below. The book itself contains more challenging ones. FIGURE 13.9 A simple problem o