 to be mated, a crossover point is chosen randomly from the positions in the string. In
CROSSOVER
Figure4.6,thecrossoverpointsareafterthethirddigitin thefirstpairandafterthefifthdigit
inthesecondpair.5
In (d), the offspring themselves are created by crossing over the parent strings at the
crossoverpoint. Forexample,thefirstchildofthefirstpair getsthefirstthreedigitsfromthe
first parent and the remaining digits from the second parent, whereas the second child gets
the first three digits from the second parent and the rest from the first parent. The 8-queens
states involved in this reproduction step are shown in Figure 4.7. The example shows that
whentwoparent statesarequitedifferent, thecrossover operation canproduce astatethatis
a long way from either parent state. It is often the case that the population is quite diverse
earlyonintheprocess,socrossover(likesimulatedannealing)frequentlytakeslargestepsin
the state space early in the search process and smaller steps later on when most individuals
arequitesimilar.
Finally, in (e), each location is subject to random mutation with a small independent
MUTATION
probability. One digit was mutated in the first, third, and fourth offspring. In the 8-queens
problem, this corresponds to choosing a queen at random and moving it to a random square
initscolumn. Figure4.8describes analgorithm thatimplementsallthesesteps.
Like stochastic beam search, genetic algorithms combine an uphill tendency with ran-
dom exploration and exchange of information among parallel search threads. The primary
advantage, if any, of genetic algorithms comes from the crossover operation. Yet it can be
shown mathematically that, if the positions of the genetic code are permuted initially in a
random order, crossover conveys no advantage. Intuitively, the advantage comes from the
abilityofcrossovertocombinelargeblocksoflettersthat haveevolvedindependently toper-
form useful functions, thus raising the level of granularity at which the search operates. For
