s collection of cells (or of atoms), blindly operating according to the laws of
biochemistry(orofphysics) what stheretobeamind? Whycanahunkofbrainbeamind
whileahunkoflivercannot? Thatremainsthegreatmystery.
26.2.4 Consciousness,qualia, and theexplanatory gap
Running through all the debates about strong AI the elephant in the debating room, so
to speak is the issue of consciousness. Consciousness is often broken down into aspects
CONSCIOUSNESS
such as understanding and self-awareness. The aspect we will focus on is that of subjective
experience: whyitisthatitfeelslikesomethingtohavecertainbrainstates(e.g.,whileeating
ahamburger), whereasitpresumablydoesnotfeellikeanythingtohaveotherphysicalstates
(e.g.,whilebeingarock). Thetechnicaltermfortheintrinsicnatureofexperiences isqualia
QUALIA
(fromthe Latinwordmeaning,roughly, suchthings ).
Qualia present a challenge for functionalist accounts of the mind because different
qualia could be involved in what are otherwise isomorphic causal processes. Consider, for
INVERTED example,theinvertedspectrumthoughtexperiment,whichthesubjectiveexperienceofper-
SPECTRUM
son X when seeing red objects is the same experience that the rest of us experience when
seeinggreenobjects,andviceversa. X stillcallsredobjects red, stopsforredtrafficlights,
and agrees that the redness of red traffic lights is a more intense red than the redness of the
settingsun. Yet,X ssubjective experience isjustdifferent.
Qualiaarechallengingnotjustforfunctionalism butforallofscience. Suppose,forthe
sakeofargument,thatwehavecompletedtheprocessofscientificresearchonthebrain we
have found that neural process P in neuron N transforms molecule Ainto molecule B,
12 177
and so on, and on. There is simply no currently accepted form of reasoning that would lead
from such findings to the conclusion that the entity owning those neurons has any particular
subjective experience. This explanatory gap has led some philosophers to conclude that
EXPLANATORYGAP
humansaresimplyincap