ts the addition of excessive memory entries and touch redundancy which would result it eser' event entered resulted in the addition of a separate event. Reorganization can also cause forgetting. since originally assigned indices may he changed when ness structures are formed. When this occurs, an iem cannot be located so the s ystem attempts to derive .new indices from the context and through other indices by reconstructing related events. To see how CYRUS builds and maintains a memory organtzatton. we briefly examine how a basic E-MOP grows and undergoes revision with time Initially, the $MEET E-MOP of Figure 11.7 would consist of the Content part of the frame only. Then, after a first -meeting occurred, indices relevant and unique to that meeting 224 Knowledge Organization and Management Chap. 11 are established and recorded, and pointers are set to the corresponding event. Subsequent meeings also result in the determination of new event indices, or, if two or more of the new meetings have some features in common, a new sub-EMOP would be formed with indices established and pointers set to the new E-MOP. This process continues with new indices to events added or new E-MOPs formed and indexed as new meetings occur. Furthermore, the content portion of all E-MOPs is continually monitored and modified to better describe the common events it indexes. Thus, when a number of meeting events exhibit some new property, the frame content is generalized to include this property and new indices are determined. When overgeneralization occurs, subsequent events will result in a correction through some specialization and recoruputation of indices. After the two diplomatic meetings described above had been entered, indices are developed by the system to index the events (EVI and EV2) using features which discriminate between the two meetings (Figure 11.7). If a third meeting is now entered, say one between Vance and Sadat of Egypt. which is also about Arab-Israeli peace, new E-MOPs