623 by the German scientist Wilhelm
Schickard (1592 1635), although the Pascaline, builtin1642by Blaise Pascal(1623 1662),
6 Chapter 1. Introduction
is more famous. Pascal wrote that the arithmetical machine produces effects which appear
nearer to thought than all the actions of animals. Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (1646 1716)
built amechanical device intended to carry out operations on concepts rather than numbers,
but its scope was rather limited. Leibniz did surpass Pascal by building a calculator that
could add, subtract, multiply, and take roots, whereas the Pascaline could only add and sub-
tract. Some speculated that machines might not just do calculations but actually be able to
think and act on their own. In his 1651 book Leviathan, Thomas Hobbes suggested the idea
of an artificial animal, arguing For what is the heart but a spring; and the nerves, but so
manystrings; andthejoints,butsomanywheels. It sonethingtosaythatthemindoperates,atleastinpart,accordingtologicalrules,and
to build physical systems that emulate some of those rules; it s another to say that the mind
itself is such a physical system. Rene Descartes (1596 1650) gave the first clear discussion
ofthedistinction betweenmindandmatterandoftheproblemsthatarise. Oneproblemwith
a purely physical conception of the mind is that it seems to leave little room for free will:
if the mind is governed entirely by physical laws, then it has no more free will than a rock deciding tofalltowardthecenteroftheearth. Descarteswasastrongadvocateofthepower
of reasoning in understanding theworld, aphilosophy now called rationalism, and one that
RATIONALISM
counts Aristotle and Leibnitz as members. But Descartes was also a proponent of dualism.
DUALISM
He held that there is a part of the human mind (or soul or spirit) that is outside of nature,
exempt from physical laws. Animals, on the other hand, did not possess this dual quality;
they could be treated as machines. An alternative to dualism is materialism, which holds