long with that also the problems of dealing with synonyms, hyponyms, hypernyms, homonyms, meronyms, paronyms and so on. The use of natural language words also leaves the problem of translation between different languages open. One can ask is whether the knowledge represented by an agent is dependent upon the language used by the agent or is it represented independent of it in some conceptual manner. A few thousand years ago when two different humans in different parts of the world spied an apple on a tree and reached out for it, was there anything common in their representation and processing? Did William Shakespeare and James Joyce have access to a larger set of concepts or a more powerful faculty of describing them? There are two reasons to move away from a linguistics based representation. The first, the fact that there are many different languages talking about the same things suggests that one should be able to look for a common representation. The second is that even with a chosen language there is a surfeit of richness of expression allowing different ways of saying the same thing. This may contribute to the aesthetic demands of literature but compounds the difficulty in automatic reasoning. If we could come up with a core set of conceptual representations then the task of reasoning would be simplified because the vocabulary would become smaller. Such an interesting exercise was done through the seventies and early eighties on a large scale. 13.4.Canceptual Dependency Theory A novel approach to knowledge representation was the work ROARS 9 it of Yale University in the seventies. Spearheaded by Roger Schank many interesting natural language understanding programs were built around his Conceptual Dependency (CD) theory of representation. The work was done in the context of story understanding and began with representing everyday actions using a core set of conceptual actions and states. The CD theory represents all states and events using a small set of primiti