sfiability threshold conjecture states that, for each k, there is a sharp satisfiability
THRESHOLD
CONJECTURE threshold r ,suchthatasthenumberofvariables n ,instances belowthethreshold are
k
satisfiable with probability 1, while those above the threshold are unsatisfiable with proba-
bility1. Theconjecture wasnotquiteprovedby Friedgut(1999): asharpthresholdexistsbut
its location might depend on n even as n . Despite significant progress in asymptotic
analysis of the threshold location for large k (Achlioptas and Peres, 2004; Achlioptas et al.,
2007), all that can be proved for k 3 is that it lies in the range 3.52,4.51 . Current theory
suggests that apeak in the run time of a SA Tsolver is not necessarily related to the satisfia-
bility threshold, but instead to a phase transition in the solution distribution and structure of
SAT instances. Empirical results due to Coarfa et al. (2003) support this view. In fact, al-
SURVEY gorithms suchas surveypropagation (Parisiand Zecchina, 2002; Manevaetal.,2007)take
PROPAGATION
advantage ofspecial properties ofrandom SA Tinstances nearthesatisfiability threshold and
greatlyoutperform general SA Tsolversonsuchinstances.
Thebestsources forinformation onsatisfiability, boththeoretical andpractical, arethe
Handbook of Satisfiability (Biere et al., 2009) and the regular International Conferences on
Theoryand Applications of Satisfiability Testing,knownas SAT.
The idea of building agents with propositional logic can be traced back to the seminal
paper of Mc Culloch and Pitts (1943), which initiated the field of neural networks. Con-
trary topopular supposition, thepaperwasconcerned withthe implementation ofa Boolean
circuit-based agentdesign inthebrain. Circuit-based agents, whichperform computation by
propagating signals in hardware circuits rather than running algorithms in general-purpose
computers, have received little attention in AI, however. The most notable exception is the
work of Stan Rosenschein (Rosenschein, 1985; Kaelbl