on of two actions happening at the same time no longer holds because they may have different durations. Two instantaneous actions a and b have only three possible qualitative temporal relations between them Before(a, b) or a b, SameTime(a, b) or a b, and After(a, b) or a b saying respectively that the action a could happen before, at the same time, or after action b. This is because temporally, the actions are points on an integer line. When we talk of actions with durations then they are represented by intervals over a real or integer line. The relations between two durative actions are described in Allen s interval algebra (Allen, 1983), as opposed to point algebra when actions are instantaneous. There are thirteen possible qualitative relations between two intervals (durative actions) as shown in Figure 10.21. Qualitative relations do not consider quantitative values such as actual durations of actions or when actions occur. They simply describe how two actions are placed relative to each other on the timeline. When we talk of an action being before (or after) another action, we also have to take into account the case when the later action begins just when the former ends. This distinction was not needed with instantaneous actions because it would correspond to the SameTime relation. Therefore, one can see that while the Before and After relations of point algebra carry over to the interval algebra, the SameTime relation gets refined into eleven different relations. b(a, b), a bi(b, a) m(a, b), a C3 miba) SSS S BY 3 ofa, b), a oi(b, a) fila, b), a Mt, a di(a, b), a d(b, a) b si(a, b), a s(b, a) b e(a, b) us FIGURE 10.21 The 13 relations in Allen s interval algebra. The following six - b before, m meets, o overlaps, f finishes, d during and s starts -have inverses bi, mi, oi, fi, di and si. The last relation e equal is symmetric and does not have an inverse. The thirteen relations between two intervals, a and b, in Allen s interval algebra are given in Table 10.1.