 Penguins cannot fly. We represent the sentences as the graph in Figure 14.20. We adopt the notation of representing the edges by the two nodes separated by a dot. If the relation is a negative one, as in the last sentence, we include the negation sign. The graph can then be represented by the edges, peppy - Penguin Penguin - Bird Bird - CanFly Penguin - CanFly The question we want to ask is whether Peppy can fly is true, which is represented by the statement peppy CanFly . In general, the inheritance question can be answered by traversing the inheritance network upwards from the node in question to check whether one can reach the desired property. In this example, there are two paths that one can find from peppy to CanFly . One (peppy-Penguin-Bird-CanFly) is a positive path, implying that Peppy can inherit that property. The other (peppy-Penguin--CanFly) is a negative path, implying that it cannot. Which one is more acceptable? One heuristic would be to accept the shortest path (from the set of available paths). In this example, this would work because the shorter path does indeed represent the intended conclusion that (while birds in general can fly) penguins cannot fly, and since Peppy is a penguin, it is reasonable to infer that it cannot fly. But what if the two paths to a node are of equal length? For example, we can modify our set of sentences so that the network looks as the one on the left in Figure 14.21. In that case, we do not have any reason for preferring either of the two possible paths. Aquatic Bird Bird AquaticBird Bird AntarticaA quatic Bird Penguin Penguin FIGURE 14.21 The network on the left has equal paths, and hence no preferred inference. Adding one more node in the negative path now makes it longer. The shortest path heuristic would conclude that Peppy can fly. The fact that we could add another sentence and change the decision does not bode well for the shortest path heuristic. In fact, we can add one more node to the network as shown on the