ent is known a priori (Figure 2.2) but the dirt distri-
butionandtheinitiallocationoftheagentarenot. Cleansquaresstaycleanandsucking
cleans the current square. The Left and Right actions move the agent left and right
exceptwhenthiswouldtaketheagentoutsidetheenvironment, inwhichcasetheagent
remainswhereitis. Theonlyavailable actionsare Left,Right,and Suck. Theagentcorrectly perceivesitslocation andwhetherthat location contains dirt.
We claim that under these circumstances the agent is indeed rational; its expected perfor-
manceisatleastashighasanyotheragent s. Exercise2.2asksyoutoprovethis.
One can see easily that the same agent would be irrational under different circum-
stances. Forexample, once allthedirtiscleaned up, theagent willoscillate needlessly back
andforth;iftheperformancemeasureincludesapenaltyofonepointforeachmovementleft
or right, the agent will fare poorly. A better agent for this case would do nothing once it is
sure that allthe squares are clean. Ifclean squares can become dirty again, the agent should
occasionally check and re-clean them if needed. If the geography of the environment is un-
known, the agent will need to explore it rather than stick to squares A and B. Exercise 2.2
asksyoutodesignagentsforthesecases.
2.2.2 Omniscience, learning, andautonomy
We need to be careful to distinguish between rationality and omniscience. An omniscient
OMNISCIENCE
agent knows the actual outcome of its actions and can act accordingly; but omniscience is
impossible in reality. Consider the following example: I am walking along the Champs
Elyse es one day and I see an old friend across the street. There is no traffic nearby and I m
not otherwise engaged, so, being rational, I start to cross the street. Meanwhile, at 33,000
feet, a cargo door falls off a passing airliner,2 and before I make it to the other side of the
street Iamflattened. Was Iirrationaltocrossthestreet? Itisunlikelythatmyobituarywould
read Idiotattemptstocrossstreet. This example shows that rat