 We begin with a description of representation structure's Obtoli nt ,j ._ flepre.entar,on a.- Transformations Match [ - cottparator ,- Result Merri. Ic I! Representations Transformations Figure 10.1 Typical matching process. Sec. 10,2 Structures Used in Matching 191 and measures commonly found in matching problems. We next look at various matching techniques based on exact, partial, and fuzzy approaches. We conclude the chapter with an example of an efficient match algorithm used in some rukbased expert systems. 10.2 STRUCTURES USED IN MATCHING We are already familiar with many of the repreemttation structures used in rn,jlchin programs. Typically, they will be some type of Its I structures that represenl clauses in propositional or predicate logic such a (or IMARRIED ?x N,) (DAUGHTER ?y)(MOTHER N1 ?z), or rules, such as land ((cloudy-sky) (tow-bar-pressure) (hmgh-humidity)) (conclude (rain-likely)), or fragments of associative networks (Figure 10.2) and frames or frame-like structures (igure 10.3). In addition to these, other common structures include strmngs of characters a1a 2 - - - a5, where the a, belong to a given alphabet A, vectors X = x), where the x, represents attribute values, matrices NI (rows of Vectors), generil graphs, trees, and sets. - wife ,on br,dqe.pa"ne's -, (puiprop Ion (sue) wfe) (putprop we (;oe) nbd( Outproc, to, (broker) profession) Figure 10.2 Fragment it a-,-.o putpror sue (amy Iou)se mary) hridge-patners( network and correspondine LISP c,dc 192 Matching Techniques Chap. 10 name: data-structures alto: university-course department: computer-science credits: 3-hours prerequisites:(if-needed check catalog) (a) (data-structures (alto (value university-course)) (department (value computer-science)) (credits (value 3-hours)) - (prerequisites (:it-needed check-catalog)))) Figure 10.3 tat Frame structure and WI (h I corresponding A-list code, Variables AU of the structures we shal Icons ider here are constructed front basic atomic elements, num