in his Conceptual Graphs in the eighties. And now the system Wordnet developed at Princeton University is a valuable resource for anyone interested in getting at the knowledge behind lexical utterances. The importance of knowledge had been brilliantly illustrated by the program Dendral. Developed at the Stanford University by Edward Feigenbaum and his colleagues in 1967, Dendral was a program designed to be a chemist s assistant. It took the molecular formula of a chemical compound, its mass spectrogram and searched through a vast number of possibilities to identify the structure of the molecule. It was able to do this effectively with the aid of large amounts of knowledge gleaned from expert chemists. This resulted in performance that matched that of an expert chemist. And the idea of Expert Systems was born: to educe domain specific knowledge and put it in the machine. The preferred form of representation was rules, and we often refer to such systems as Rule Based Expert Systems. A flurry of activity followed. MYCIN, a medical diagnosis system, the doctoral work of Edward Shortliffe, appeared in the early seventies. Its performance was rated highly by the Standford Medical School, but it was never put to use mainly due to ethical and legal issues that could crop up. Another medical system was the nternist from the University of Pittsburgh. A system to help geologists prospects for minerals, Prospector, was developed by Richard Duda and Peter Hart. Buying a computer system was not an off- the-shelf process as it is now, and needed considerable expertise. A system called R1, later named XCON, was built in CMU in 1978, to help users configure DAC VAX systems. The main problem with the idea of Expert Systems was what is known as the knowledge acquisition bottleneck. Despite the elaborate interviewing protocols that researchers experimented with, domain experts were either unable or unwilling to articulate their knowledge in the form of rules. And like in other domains