e the image brightness I(x,y),
given the scene geometry and reflectance properties of the objects in the scene. Computer
visionaimstoinverttheprocess that is,torecoverthegeometryandreflectance properties,
given the image brightness I(x,y). This has proved to be difficult to do in anything but the
simplestcases.
From the physical model of section 24.1.4, we know that if a surface normal points
toward the light source, the surface is brighter, and if it points away, the surface is darker.
We cannot conclude that a dark patch has its normal pointing away from the light; instead,
it could have low albedo. Generally, albedo changes quite quickly in images, and shading
Section24.4. Reconstructing the3DWorld 953
(a) (b)
Figure24.20 (a)Atexturedscene.Assumingthattherealtextureisuniformallowsrecov-
eryofthesurfaceorientation. Thecomputedsurfaceorientationisindicatedbyoverlayinga
blackcircleandpointer,transformedasifthecirclewerepaintedonthesurfaceatthatpoint.
(b)Recoveryofshapefromtextureforacurvedsurface(whitecircleandpointerthistime).
Imagescourtesyof Jitendra Malikand Ruth Rosenholtz(1994).
changes rather slowly, and humans seem to be quite good at using this observation to tell
whether low illumination, surface orientation, or albedo caused a surface patch to be dark.
To simplify the problem, let us assume that the albedo is known at every surface point. It
is still difficult to recover the normal, because the image brightness is one measurement but
thenormalhastwounknownparameters, sowecannot simplysolveforthenormal. Thekey
to this situation seems to be that nearby normals will be similar, because most surfaces are
smooth they donothavesharpchanges.
Therealdifficultycomesindealingwithinterreflections. Ifweconsideratypicalindoor
scene, such as the objects inside an office, surfaces are illuminated not only by the light
sources, but also by the light reflected from other surfaces in the scene that effectively serve
assecondary light sources. These mutual illumination effe