f a
solution tothiseasierproblem thenbecomestheheuristicfortheoriginal problem.
By definition, there is no way to analyze an atomic state, and thus it it requires some
ingenuity by a human analyst to define good domain-specific heuristics for search problems
with atomic states. Planning uses a factored representation for states and action schemas.
That makes it possible to define good domain-independent heuristics and for programs to
automatically applyagooddomain-independent heuristic foragivenproblem.
Think of a search problem as a graph where the nodes are states and the edges are
actions. The problem is to find a path connecting the initial state to a goal state. There are
two ways we can relax this problem to make it easier: by adding more edges to the graph,
making it strictly easier to find a path, or by grouping multiple nodes together, forming an
abstraction ofthestatespacethathasfewerstates, andthusiseasiertosearch.
We look first at heuristics that add edges to the graph. For example, the ignore pre-
IGNORE
conditions heuristicdrops allpreconditions from actions. Everyaction becomes applicable
PRECONDITIONS
HEURISTIC
in every state, and any single goal fluent can be achieved in one step (if there is an applica-
ble action if not, the problem is impossible). This almost implies that the number of steps
required to solve the relaxed problem is the number of unsatisfied goals almost but not
quite, because (1) some action may achieve multiple goals and (2) some actions may undo
theeffects ofothers. Formanyproblems anaccurate heuristic isobtained byconsidering (1)
and ignoring (2). First, we relax the actions by removing all preconditions and all effects
except those that are literals in the goal. Then, we count the minimum number of actions
required such that the union of those actions effects satisfies the goal. This is an instance
SET-COVER of the set-cover problem. There is one minor irritation: the set-cover problem is NP-hard.
PROBLEM
Fortunately a simple