 CARRY is chosen first, its preconditions must be met. This results in two more differences that must be reduced: the location of the robot and the size of the desk. The location of the robot can be handled by applying WALK, but there are no operators than can change the size of an object (since we did not include Heuristic Search Techniques 73 Seemann one mnie tamu emn named Operator Preconditions Results PUSH(ohj, loc) at(robot, obj)* at(obj. loc) large(obj)* attrobot, loc) clear(obj)* armempty CARRY (obj, loc) at(robot, obj)* at(obj, loc)* small(obj} at(robot. loc) WALK (loc) none at(robot, loc) PICKUP(obj) at(robot, obj) holding(obj) PUTDOWN(ob}) holding (obj) saholding(obj) PLACE(objl, obj2) at(robot, obj2)* on(objt, obj2) holding(obj!) Fig. 3.15 The Robot s Operators Push | Carry | Walk | Pickup Putdow Place Move object * * Move robot * Clear object * Get object on object Get arm empty * * Be holding object Fig. 3.16 A Difference Tabie SAW-APART). So this path leads to a dead-end. Following the other branch, we attempt to apply PLUSH. Figure 3.17 shows the problem solver s progress at this point. lt has found a way of doing something uscful. But it is not yet in a position to do that thing. And the thing does not get A B c D it quite to the goal state. So now the differences between A and B and i ' i between C and D must be reduced. | Push | PUSH has four preconditions, two of which produce differences Start Goa between the start and the goal states: the robot must be at the desk, and Fig. 3.17 The Progress of the the desk must be clear. Since the desk is already large, and the robot s Means-Ends Anaiysis arm is empty, those two preconditions can be ignored. The robot can be Method brought to the correct Jocation by using WALK. And the surface of the desk can be cleared by two uses of PICKUP. But after one PICKUP, an attempt to do the second results in another difference the arm must he empty. PUTDOWN can be used to reduce that difference. Once PUSH is perform