s. Alearning agentcanbefullyautonomous.
7.2 THE WUMPUS WORLD
Inthissection wedescribe anenvironment inwhichknowledge-based agents canshowtheir
worth. Thewumpusworldisacaveconsistingofroomsconnectedbypassageways. Lurking
WUMPUSWORLD
somewhere in the cave isthe terrible wumpus, a beast that eats anyone who enters its room.
Thewumpuscanbeshotbyanagent,buttheagenthasonlyonearrow. Someroomscontain
Section7.2. The Wumpus World 237
bottomless pitsthatwilltrapanyone whowanders intothese rooms(except forthewumpus,
which is too big to fall in). The only mitigating feature of this bleak environment is the
possibility of finding a heap of gold. Although the wumpus world is rather tame by modern
computergamestandards, itillustrates someimportant pointsaboutintelligence.
A sample wumpus world is shown in Figure 7.2. The precise definition of the task
environment isgiven,assuggested in Section2.3,bythe PEA Sdescription: Performance measure: 1000 for climbing out of the cave with the gold, 1000 for
falling into a pit or being eaten by the wumpus, 1 for each action taken and 10 for
usingupthearrow. Thegameendseitherwhentheagentdiesorwhentheagentclimbs
outofthecave. Environment: A 4 4 grid of rooms. The agent always starts in the square labeled 1,1 , facing to the right. The locations of the gold and the wumpus are chosen ran-
domly, with a uniform distribution, from the squares other than the start square. In
addition, eachsquareotherthanthestartcanbeapit,withprobability 0.2. Actuators: The agent can move Forward, Turn Left by 90 , or Turn Right by 90 . The
agent dies a miserable death if it enters a square containing apit ora live wumpus. (It
issafe, albeit smelly, toenter asquare with adead wumpus.) Ifan agent tries to move
forward and bumps into awall, then the agent does notmove. Theaction Grabcan be
used to pick up the gold if it is in the same square as the agent. The action Shoot can
beusedtofireanarrowinastraight lineinthedirection theagentisfacing. Thearrow
continues untili