erence engine to yield a Yes as all of them are True. By now you are already familiar with what facts and rules are and how goals serve to query information. You are also aware of Variables and Constants in PROLOG. 25.4 PROLOG TERMINOLOGY (a) Predicates A predicate name is the symbol used to define a relation. For instance in relishes(priya, coffee). the symbol relishes is the predicate while the contents within viz. priya and coffee comprise its arguments. Predicates need not necessarily have arguments. (b) Clauses Clauses are the actual rules and facts that constitute the PROLOG program. (c) Atoms Atoms are basically symbols or names that are indivisible and are used in the program, files or as database items, among others. They are represented in single quotes as in Here is an atom {d) Character Character lists are used in programs that manipulate text character by character. They are represented in double quotes and when printed appear as a list of ASCII codes of each letter in the character chain. (e) Strings Strings on the contrary, have a form that is in between an atom and a character list. They are represented between backward quotes (the key below esc on the keyboard) as This is an string . (f) Arity The number of arguments in a predicate forms its arity. It is represented by a /n placed after the predicate name. n is the number of arguments. For instance the predicate relishes/2 takes two arguments. 25.5 VARIABLES In PROLOG, variables must begin with a capital letter and could be followed by other letters (upper or lower case), digits, underscores or hyphenations but no blanks. Examples of a few valid variables are given below: My_favourite-food_items Menu-item-1 Priya Does_Priya_like_Coffee 500 Artificial Intelligence Some invalid variables are given below: Menu ltem-1 SPro foo PROLOG also has a variable called the anonymous variable. This is represented by just an underscore (_). In a goal if information on a particular argument is not required then an 