e more likely it is to fail. To simplify matters, let us deal with time in intervals and assign a probability value of failure during each of these time intervals. Let us also make the (not so reasonable) assumption that the total life of the component is not more than N years, after which we know it will fail. Then we have N time intervals t, ... ty and corresponding to each of these intervals is a numeric value p, ... py, where p; denotes the probability of the component C failing during the time interval t,. The set of N time intervals define N corresponding propositions. Each proposition F; asserts that the component will fail in the " time interval t. The set of statements F, ... Fy is called the sample space. A sample space is a set of mutually exclusive (only one can be true) and exhaustive (at least one has to be true) set of statements. Since we do not know which statement is true in fact, the numbers p, ... Py are used to assign our belief in their chance of being true. That is, P(Fi) pj where P(F;) denotes the probability of proposition F; being true, and is a short form for P(F; true). The function P is called the probability mass function. For these numbers to be probabilities, they have to satisfy the following properties. 0 P(F)S1 and Ligcnw P(F;) 1 The first inequality states that the minimum probability value possible is zero and the maximum possible value is one. The value zero corresponds to total disbelief and the value zero corresponds to total belief. Observe that these are measures of belief of the agent and not what is true is the world. In the real world, the component will fail or not fail in a given time interval. If one were to toss a fair coin then one would say that the probability of it falling heads up is 0.5, as is the probability of it falling tails up. But when you do toss a coin, it either falls heads up or tails up, and there is no uncertainty about it any more. The second property states that the sum of probabilities over the sa