virtue of its ability to affect decisions. Stratonovich s work
was not known in the West, where Ron Howard (1966) pioneered the same idea. His paper
endswiththeremark Ifinformationvaluetheoryandassociateddecisiontheoreticstructures
do not in the future occupy a large part of the education of engineers, then the engineering
professionwillfindthatitstraditionalroleofmanagingscientificandeconomicresourcesfor
the benefit of man has been forfeited to another profession. Todate, the implied revolution
inmanagerial methodshasnotoccurred.
Recent work by Krause and Guestrin (2009) shows that computing the exact non-
myopicvalueofinformationisintractableeveninpolytree networks. Thereareothercases morerestricted thangeneral valueofinformation in which themyopicalgorithm doespro-
vide a provably good approximation to the optimal sequence of observations (Krause et al.,
2008). Insomecases forexample, looking fortreasure buried inoneofnplaces ranking
experimentsinorderofsuccessprobabilitydividedbycostgivesanoptimalsolution(Kadane
and Simon,1977).
Surprisingly few early AI researchers adopted decision-theoretic tools after the early
applications inmedicaldecision makingdescribed in Chapter13. Oneofthefewexceptions
was Jerry Feldman, who applied decision theory to problems in vision (Feldman and Yaki-
movsky,1974)andplanning(Feldmanand Sproull,1977). Aftertheresurgenceofinterestin
probabilisticmethodsin AIinthe1980s,decision-theoreticexpertsystemsgainedwidespread
acceptance (Horvitz et al., 1988; Cowell et al., 2002). In fact, from 1991 onward, the cover
design of the journal Artificial Intelligence has depicted a decision network, although some
artisticlicenseappears tohavebeentakenwiththedirection ofthearrows.
640 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
EXERCISES
16.1 (Adaptedfrom David Heckerman.) Thisexerciseconcernsthe Almanac Game,which
is used by decision analysts to calibrate numeric estimation. For each of the questions that
follow, give your best guess of the answer, that is,