tem is designed for a specific task. Building integrated knowledge representation systems that an agent can use for different tasks is definitely a challenge for artificial intelligence research. Until we can do so, there is little chance of being able to make long-distance cross connections that seem to be the source of novel solutions. In some sense, our systems are tuned to work within a species, making changes within a rigid framework. To mimic, natural evolution would also result in accepting the slow process of change that nature has worked with. To emulate human creativity, we must be able to represent diverse ideas in a common pool and develop an ability to combine them in different ways and recognizing the good ideas when they do come along. Box 4.2: Swarms in the Semiosphere In genetic algorithms, we talk about systems (species, designs and solutions) that are made up of parts; and of processes that recombine the parts to produce new and novel systems. A question one might ask is what these processes are and how these parts come together. The idea of emergent systems is that these parts come together by themselves in an environment where things that persist, persist and things that don t, don t (Grand, 2001). The idea behind emergent systems is that small simple parts can come together to form systems that can display complex behaviour.'4 And that simple parts come together and cooperate; not as a conscious process, but because their simple behaviours mesh together easily. Well known examples of complex systems emerging out of combinations of simple ones are ant colonies and human brains. Jesper Hoffmeyer says' , The emerging discipline of biosemiotics looks at how complex behaviour emerges when simple systems interact with each other through signs. Sign processes (or semiosis) are processes whereby something comes to signify something else to somebody (and somebody here may be taken in the broadest sense possible, as any system possessing an evolved capac