), x, ;) 13 T TU Sj 14 if not conflicting then return a; 15 return null FIGURE 9.45 The main procedure of CDBackjumping is same as GraphBackjumping, maintaining a set 7; of target variables to jump back to. The difference is that here the set 7; is initialized to an empty set, and variables are added in the call to SelectValue-CDBJ. The function SubLabel extracts the first k values from a compound label. The algorithm works with a set of ordered constraints as described in the text. We assume a function EMC that returns the index of the earliest constraint in the ordering that produces the conflict, and variables in the scope of that constraint are added to the target set. 9.9 Discussion Constraint Satisfaction Problems are an alternative formulation of problem solving, in which the problem to be solved is represented as a set of variables and constraints that define the combination of values the variables can be assigned in the same solution. Each constraint specifies partial and local information as relations between a subset of variables. Taken together, all the constraints together specify a constraint or relation on all the variables. This solution relation specifies the solutions or the set of allowable values for all the variables. The task of solving the CSP is to find this solution relation. The simplest approach to solving a CSP is to treat it as a search problem, and explore different combinations of assignments till a solution (assignment) is found. The problem with this approach is that the number of combinations is too large. The explicit nature of the local information makes it possible to reason about allowable combinations to prune the domains of the variables, throwing away values from domains that will never participate in solutions. This form of reasoning also prunes combinations of values, or relations, for sets of variables, keeping only those that can participate in solutions. Enforcing higher forms of reasoning is also a computationally expen