lt of taking an action, and Figure 2.16 provides schematic depictions of how those
transitions mightberepresented.
B C
B C
(a) Atomic (b) Factored (b) Structured
Figure2.16 Threewaystorepresentstatesandthetransitionsbetweenthem. (a)Atomic
representation:astate(suchas Bor C)isablackboxwithnointernalstructure;(b)Factored
representation: a state consists of a vectorof attribute values; valuescan be Boolean, real-
valued, or one of a fixed set of symbols. (c) Structured representation: a state includes
objects,eachofwhichmayhaveattributesofitsownaswellasrelationshipstootherobjects.
ATOMIC In an atomic representation each state of the world is indivisible it has no internal
REPRESENTATION
structure. Consider the problem of finding a driving route from one end of a country to the
otherviasomesequenceofcities(weaddressthisproblemin Figure3.2onpage68). Forthe
purposes ofsolving this problem, itmaysufficetoreduce the stateofworldtojustthename
of the city we are in a single atom of knowledge; a black box whose only discernible
property is that of being identical to or different from another black box. The algorithms
58 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
underlyingsearchandgame-playing(Chapters3 5),Hidden Markovmodels(Chapter15),
and Markov decision processes (Chapter 17) all work with atomic representations or, at
least,theytreatrepresentations asiftheywereatomic.
Nowconsider a higher-fidelity description for the same problem, where weneed to be
concerned with more than just atomic location in one city oranother; wemight need to pay
attention tohowmuchgasisinthetank, ourcurrent GP Scoordinates, whetherornottheoil
warning light isworking, howmuch spare change wehave fortoll crossings, whatstation is
FACTORED on the radio, and so on. A factored representation splits up each state into a fixed set of
REPRESENTATION
variables or attributes, each of which can have a value. While two different atomic states
VARIABLE
have nothing in common they are just different black boxes two differen