void ambiguity at the time the association was stored. This might be just the first letter, for example: But, of course, as the discrimination net grew and more syllables were added, an old cue might no longer be sufficient to identify a response syllable uniquely. Thus EPAM, like people, sometimes forgot previously learned responses. Many people regard programs in this first class to be uninteresting, and to some extent they are probably right. These programs can, however, be useful tools for psychologists who want to test theories of human performance. The second class of programs that attempt to model human performance are those that do things that fall more clearly within our definition of AI tasks; they do things that are not trivial for the computer. There are several reasons one might want to model human performance at these sorts of tasks: 1. To test psychological theories of human performance. One example of a program that was written for this reason is PARRY [Colby, 1975], which exploited a model of human paranoid behavior to simulate the conversational behavior of a paranoid person. The model was good enough that when several psychologists were given the opportunity to converse with the program via a terminal, they diagnosed its behavior as paranoid. 2. To enable computers to understand human reasoning. For example, for a computer to be able to read a newspaper story and then answer a question, such as Why did the terrorists kill the hostages? its program must be able to simulate the reasoning processes of people. 3. To enable people to understand computer reasoning. In many circumstances, people are reluctant to rely on the output of a computer unless they can understand how the machine arrived at its result. If the computer s reasoning process is similar to that of people, then producing an acceptable explanation is much easier. 4. To exploit what knowledge we can glean from people. Since people are the best-known performers of most of the tasks with wh