lowing meanings for the verbs in these sentences: 1. read isa: Mental-Event; object: must be <printed-material> 2. back out isa: Mental-Event; agent: must be <animate-entity> 3. eat isa; Ingestion-Event, object: must be <food> The problem is that it is not possible to construct coherent interpretations for any of these sentences with these definitions. An author is not a <printed-material>. A city is not an <animate-entity>. A rodent is not a <food>. One solution is to create additional dictionary entries for the nouns: Joyce as a set of literary works, Washington as the people who run the U.S. government, and a squirrel as a food. But a better solution is to use general knowledge to derive these meanings when they are needed. By better, here we mean that since less knowledge must be entered by hand, the resulting system will be less brittle. The general knowledge that is necessary to handle these examples is: Natural Language Processing 313 RENNIN CEST AEGON HIS e The name of a person can be used to refer to things the person creates. Authoring is a kind of creating. e The name of a place can be used to stand for an organization headquartered in that place if the association between the organization and the place is salient in the contest. An organization can in tum stand for the people who run it. The headquarters of the U.S. government is in Washington. Food (meat) can be made out of almost any animal. Usually the word for the animal can be used to refer to the meat made from the animal. Of course, this problem can become arbitrarily complex. For example, metaphors are a rich source for linguistic expressions [Lakoff and Johnson, 1980]. And the problem becomes even more complex when we move beyond single sentences and attempt to extract meaning from texts and dialogues. We delve briefly into those issues in Section 15.4. The Interaction between Syntax and Semantics If we take a compositional approach to semantics, then we apply semantic interpretation mules to ea