y x,y
Now, of course, we need axioms that allow the agent to keep track of fluents such as Lt .
x,y
These fluents change as the result of actions taken by the agent, so, in the terminology of
Chapter 3, we need to write down the transition model of the wumpus world as a set of
logicalsentences.
First, we need proposition symbols for the occurrences of actions. As with percepts,
thesesymbolsareindexedbytime;thus,Forward0meansthattheagentexecutesthe Forward
action at time 0. Byconvention, the percept fora given time step happens first, followed by
theactionforthattimestep,followedbyatransition tothe nexttimestep.
To describe how the world changes, we can try writing effect axioms that specify the
EFFECTAXIOM
outcomeofanactionatthenexttimestep. Forexample,iftheagentisatlocation 1,1 facing
east at time0 and goes Forward, the result isthat the agent is in square 2,1 and no longer
isin 1,1 :
L0 Facing East0 Forward0 (L1 L1 ). (7.1)
1,1 2,1 1,1
We would need one such sentence for each possible time step, for each of the 16 squares,
andeachofthefourorientations. Wewouldalsoneedsimilarsentencesfortheotheractions:
Grab,Shoot,Climb,Turn Left,and Turn Right.
Let us suppose that the agent does decide to move Forward at time 0 and asserts this
fact into its knowledge base. Given the effect axiom in Equation (7.1), combined with the
initial assertions about the state at time 0, the agent can now deduce that it is in 2,1 . That
is, ASK(KB,L1 ) true. Sofar, so good. Unfortunately, the news elsewhere isless good:
2,1
if we ASK(KB,Have Arrow1), the answer is false, that is, the agent cannot prove it still
has the arrow; norcan it prove it doesn t have it! Theinformation has been lost because the
effectaxiom fails tostatewhatremains unchanged astheresultofanaction. Theneed todo
this gives rise to the frame problem.11 One possible solution to the frame problem would
FRAMEPROBLEM
10 Section7.4.3convenientlyglossedoverthisrequirement.
11 Thename frameproblem comesfrom frameofreference inp