.0 for 0x:520 u4(x) = x - 20 [I .+ (- for >20 --) ]- The values of.u A(x) are depicted graphically, in Figure 5.6. A number of operations that are unique to fuzzy sets have been defined. A few of the more common operations include Dilation. The dilation of A is defined as DIL(A) IU(X)l for all x in U 100 Dealing with Inconsistencies and Uncertainties Chap. 5 LS Figure 5.6 Degrees of mernbcrhip for t O 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 young age. Concentration. The concentration of A is defined as CON(A) = Iu A(x)J for all r in U Normalization. The normalization of A is defined as NORM(A) = UAW I max{u A(x)} for all x in U These three operations are depicted graphically in Figure 5.7. Note that dilation tends to increase the degree of membership of all panial members x by spreading out the characteristic function curve. The concentration is the opposite of dilation. It tends to decrease the degree of membership of all partial members, and concentrates the characteristic function curve. Normalization provides a means of normalizing all characteristic functions to the same base much the same as vectors can be normalized to unit vectors. In addition to the above, a number of other operations have been defined including (uzzification; Fuzziflcation permits one to fuzzify any normal set. These operations will not be required here. Consequently we omit their definitions. Lofi a. Zadeh of the University of California. Berkeley, first introduced fuzzy sets in 1965. His objectives were to generalize the notions of a set and propositions to accommodate the type of fuzziness or vagueness we have discussed above. Since its introduction in 1965, much research has been conducted in fuzzy set theory and logic. As a result, extensions now include such concepts as fuzzy arithmetic, possibility distributions, fuzzy statistics, fuzzy,random variables, and fuzzy set functions. Many researchers in Al have been reluctant to accept fuzzy logic as a viable alternative to FOPL. Still, successful s