oblems like starting in Arad, get to Arad. ) Then we
need to consider taking various actions. We do this by expanding the current state; that is,
EXPANDING
applying each legal action to the current state, thereby generating a new set of states. In
GENERATING
this case, we add three branches from the parent node In(Arad) leading to three new child
PARENTNODE
nodes: In(Sibiu), In(Timisoara), and In(Zerind). Now we must choose which of these three
CHILDNODE
possibilities toconsiderfurther.
Thisistheessenceofsearch followinguponeoptionnowandputtingtheothersaside
for later, in case the first choice does not lead to a solution. Suppose we choose Sibiu first.
We check to see whether it is a goal state (it is not) and then expand it to get In(Arad),
In(Fagaras), In(Oradea),and In(Rimnicu Vilcea). Wecanthenchooseanyofthesefourorgo
back and choose Timisoara or Zerind. Each ofthese sixnodes isa leaf node, that is, anode
LEAFNODE
with no children in the tree. The set of all leaf nodes available for expansion at any given
pointiscalledthefrontier. (Manyauthors callittheopenlist, whichisbothgeographically
FRONTIER
lessevocativeandlessaccurate, becauseotherdatastructures arebettersuitedthanalist.) In
OPENLIST
Figure3.6,thefrontierofeachtreeconsists ofthosenodes withboldoutlines.
Theprocessofexpandingnodesonthefrontiercontinuesuntileitherasolutionisfound
ortherearenomorestatestoexpand. Thegeneral TREE-SEARCH algorithm isshowninfor-
mally in Figure 3.7. Search algorithms all share this basic structure; they vary primarily
according tohowtheychoosewhichstatetoexpandnext theso-called search strategy.
SEARCHSTRATEGY
Theeagle-eyedreaderwillnoticeonepeculiarthingaboutthesearchtreeshownin Fig-
ure3.6: itincludesthepathfrom Aradto Sibiuandbackto Aradagain! Wesaythat In(Arad)
is a repeated state in the search tree, generated in this case by a loopy path. Considering
REPEATEDSTATE
such loopy paths means that the complete search tree for Romania is infinite because there
LOOPYPATH
is no limit