t is completeness equally important? After al been able to decide the Goldbach conjecture, written in a June 7, 1742 letter to Euler, and which : 2ems that every number that is greater than 2 is the sum of three primes (see for example (Guy, 20( s 357 years to find a proof for Fermat's last theorem (Wiles, 1995). And yet we are an intelligen of turning our focus onto our own intelligence (see (Hofstadter, 2007) for an insightful exploratic er, intelligence requires much more than logically reasoning. It requires the ability to imagine, to 2r and learn, to fantasize, to plan, to perceive, make music and many other things. And it does not h: : for everyone. Exercises sign truth values to the following statements. The Mount Everest is not in India. The tomato is a vegetable. The following sentence is false. The preceding sentence is true. If the Moon is made of cheese the Earth is round. The tomato is a fruit. The butterfly is an insect. iow that all theaulesuinddgure 12.6 are sound. the following rule of inference a valid one? i ff? ve examples to illustrate all the valid forms of the Aristotelian syllogism. the following rule (from Section 12.6) a valid rule of inference? From: B and re) and: av Infer (BA QV(dA y rite a backward reasoning algorithm for propositional logic. iow that ((R V Q) A (P V 7Q)) ((R V Q) A (PV 7Q) A (R V P)) is a tautology. Hint: To show th ww thata D Band BD a. 1d a resolution refutation of the problem in Figure 12.10 that uses the set of support strategy. sive counter examples to show that the following equivalences are not tautologies 3x A(x) A 3x B(x) 3x (A(x) A B(x) Vx A(x) V Wx B(x) Vx (A(x) V B(x) we want to assert Some men are mortal the correct formalization is 3 x (Man(x) A Mortal(x)), and an(x) D Mortal(x)). One way to verify that the logic sentence says what is intended is to negate it anc t the negation reads correctly. Negate the too formalizations, and move the negation sign inside. Ho id the two negated sentences? he resolution