 systematic search procedure will try many of the permutations of these operators and so will generate the same node many times. This is exactly what happened in the water jug example shown above. 2.6 ADDITIONAL PROBLEMS Several specific problems have been discussed throughout this chapter. Other problems have not yet been mentioned, but are common throughout the AI literature. Some have become such classics that no AI book could be complete without them, so we present them in this section. A useful exercise, at this point, would be to evaluate each of them in light of the seven problein characteristics we have just discussed. A brief justification is perhaps required before this parade of toy problems is presented. Artificial intelligence is not merely a science of toy problems and microworlds (such as the blocks world). Many of the techniques that have been developed for these problems have become the core of systems that solve very nontoy problems. So think about these problems not as defining the scope of AI but rather as providing a core from which much more has developed. The Missionaries and Cannibals Problem Three missionaries and three cannibals find themselves on one side of a river. They have agreed that they would all like to get to the other side. But the missionaries are not sure what else the cannibals have agreed to. So the missionaries want to manage the trip across the river in such a way that the number of missionaries on either side of the river is never less than the number of cannibals who are on the same side. The only boat available holds only two people at a time. How can everyone get across the river without the missionaries risking being eaten? The Tower of Hanoi Somewhere near Hanoi there is a monastery whose monks devote their lives to a very important task. In their courtyard are three tal! posts. On these posts is a set of sixty-four disks, each with a hole in the center and each of a different radius. When the monastery was establishe