e square tiles which arc numbered from I to 8. One square is empty, permitting tiles Sec. 9.3 Examples of Search Problems 171 3 8 I 2 3 825 8 4 47 785 Aitait Agoet configurato confiratio Figure92 The eight puzzle game. to be shifted (Figure 9.2). The objective of the puzzle is to find a sequence of tile movements that leads from a starting configuration to a goal configuration such as that shown in Figure 9.2. The states of the eight puzzle are the different permutations of the tiles within the frame. The operations are the permissible moves (one may consider the empty space as being moveable rather than the tiles): up, down, left, and right. An optimal or good solution is one that maps an initial arrangement of tiles to the goal configuration with the smallest number of moves. The search space for the eight puzzle problem may be depicted as the tree shown in Figure 9.3. , .' Figure 93 A tree diagram for the eight !IM300100037 puzzle. 172 Search and Control Strategies Chap. 9 In the figure. the nodes are depicted as puzzle configurations. The root node represents a randomly chosen starting configuration. and its successor nodes correspond to the three single tile movements that are possible from the root A path is a sequence of nodes starling from the root and progressing downward, to the goal node. Traveling Salesman Problem The traveling salesman problem involves n cities with paths connecting the cities. A tour is any path which begins with some starling city, visits each of the other cities exactly once, and returns to the starting city. A typical tour is depicted in Figure 9.4. The objective of a traveling salesman problem is to find a minimal distance tour. To explore all such tours requires an exponential amount of time. For cxanip I, a minimal solution with only 10 cities is tractable (3.628.000 tours). One with 20 or more cities is not, since a worst-case search requires oil the order of 20! (about 23 x 10') tours. The state space for the problem can also b