rties, such as duration and starts Before. CYC deals with two basic types of temporal measures: intervals, and sets of intervals. A number of basic interval properties, such as ends During, are denned from the property before, which applies to starting and ending times 3 Of course, if we cut a substance up soo finely, itceases to be the same substance. For each substance type, CYC stores its granule size, e.g., Wood.granule = Plant Cell.Crowd.granule = Person, etc. 220 Artificial Intelligence for events. Sets of intervals are built up from basic intervals through operations like union and intersection. Thus, it is possible to state facts like John goes to the movies at three o clock every Sunday. e Agent An important subset of Composite Object is Agent, the collection of in telligent beings. Agents can be collective (e.g., corporations) owndividual (e.g., people). Agents have a number of properties, one of which is beliefs. Agents often ascribe their own beliefs to other agents in order to facilitate communication. An agent s beliefs may be incorrect, so CYC must be able to distinguish between facts in.its own knowledge base (CYC s beliefs) and facts that are possibly inconsistent with the knowledge base. These are but a few of the ontological decisions that the builders of a large knowledge base must make. Other problems arise in the representation of space, causality, structures, and the persistence of objects through time. We return to soine of these issues in Chapter 19. 10.3.5 Tools CYC is a multi-user system that provides each knowledge enterer with a textual and graphical interface to the knowledge base. Users modifications to the knowledge base are transmitted to a central server, where they are checked and then propagated to other users. We do not yet have much experience with the engineering problems of building and maintaining very large knowledge bases. In the future, it will be necessary to have tools that check consistency in the knowledge base, point 