)
MIN-VALUE(RESULT(state,a))
function MAX-VALUE(state)returnsa utility value
if TERMINAL-TEST(state)thenreturn UTILITY(state)
v foreacha in ACTIONS(state)do
v MAX(v,MIN-VALUE(RESULT(s,a)))
returnv
function MIN-VALUE(state)returnsa utility value
if TERMINAL-TEST(state)thenreturn UTILITY(state)
v foreacha in ACTIONS(state)do
v MIN(v,MAX-VALUE(RESULT(s,a)))
returnv
Figure 5.3 An algorithm forcalculating minimax decisions. It returns the action corre-
sponding to the best possible move, that is, the move that leads to the outcome with the
bestutility,undertheassumptionthattheopponentplaystominimizeutility. Thefunctions
MAX-VALUE and MIN-VALUE go throughthe whole game tree, all the way to the leaves,
to determine the backed-up value of a state. The notation argmax f(a) computes the
a S
elementaofset S thathasthemaximumvalueoff(a).
to move
A (1, 2, 6)
B (1, 2, 6) (1, 5, 2)
C (1, 2, 6) X (6, 1, 2) (1, 5, 2) (5, 4, 5)
A
(1, 2, 6) (4, 2, 3) (6, 1, 2) (7, 4,1) (5,1,1) (1, 5, 2) (7, 7,1) (5, 4, 5)
Figure5.4 Thefirstthreepliesofagametreewiththreeplayers(A,B,C). Eachnodeis
labeledwithvaluesfromtheviewpointofeachplayer. Thebestmoveismarkedattheroot.
vector of the successor state with the highest value for the player choosing at n. Anyone
who plays multiplayer games, such as Diplomacy, quickly becomes aware that much more
isgoing onthan intwo-player games. Multiplayer gamesusually involve alliances, whether
ALLIANCE
formalorinformal,amongtheplayers. Alliancesaremadeandbrokenasthegameproceeds.
How are we to understand such behavior? Are alliances a natural consequence of optimal
strategies foreach player in a multiplayer game? It turns out that they can be. Forexample,
Section5.3. Alpha Beta Pruning 167
suppose A and B are in weak positions and C is in a stronger position. Then it is often
optimal for both A and B to attack C rather than each other, lest C destroy each of them
individually. In this way, collaboration emerges from purely selfish behavior. Of course,
as soon as C wea