ncept. This led; AM to investigate ways in which a number could be broken down into factors. AM then noticed that there was only one way to break a number down into prime factors (known as the Unique Factorization Theorem). Since breaking down numbers into multiplicative components turned out to be interesting, AM decided, by analogy, to pursue additive components~as well. It made several uninteresting conjectures, such as that Learning 369 every number could be expressed as a sum of | s. It also found more interesting phenomena, such as that many numbers were expressible as the sum of two primes. By listing cases, AM determined that all even numbers greater than 2 seemed to have this property. This conjecture, known as Goldbach s Conjecture, is widely believed to be true, but a proof of it has yet to be found in mathematics. AM contains a great many general-purpose heuristics such as the ones it used in this example. Often different heuristics point in the same place. For example, while AM discovered prime numbers using a heuristic that involved looking at extreme cases, another way to derive prime numbers is to use the following two rules: e If there is a strong analogy between A and B but there is a conjecture about A that does not hold for all elements of B, define a new concept that includes the elements of B for which it does hold. If there is a set whose complement is much rarer than itself, then create a new concept representing the complement. There is a strong analogy between addition and multiplication of natural numbers. But that analogy breaks down when we observe that all natural numbers greater than I can be expressed as the sum of two smaller natural numbers (excluding the identity). This is not true for multiplication. So the first heuristic described above suggests the creation of a new concept representing the set of composite numbers. Then the second heuristic suggests creating a concept representing the complement of that, namely the set of prim