 and asetofunsat-
isfiedgoals. Wedefinethissearchproblem asfollows: The initial state is the last level of the planning graph, S , along with the set of goals
n
fromtheplanning problem. The actions available in a state at level S are to select any conflict-free subset of the
i
actions in A i 1 whose effects coverthe goals in thestate. Theresulting state has level
S i 1 and has as its set of goals the preconditions for the selected set of actions. By conflictfree, wemeanasetofactionssuchthatnotwoofthemaremutexandnotwo
oftheirpreconditions aremutex.
Section10.3. Planning Graphs 385 Thegoalistoreachastateatlevel S suchthatallthegoalsaresatisfied.
0 Thecostofeachactionis1.
Forthisparticularproblem,westartat S withthegoal At(Spare,Axle). Theonlychoicewe
2
haveforachievingthegoalsetis Put On(Spare,Axle). Thatbringsustoasearchstateat S
1
with goals At(Spare,Ground) and At(Flat,Axle). The former can be achieved only by
Remove(Spare,Trunk), and the latter by either Remove(Flat,Axle) or Leave Overnight.
But Leave Overnight ismutexwith Remove(Spare,Trunk),sotheonlysolutionistochoose
Remove(Spare,Trunk)and Remove(Flat,Axle). Thatbringsustoasearchstateat S with
0
the goals At(Spare,Trunk) and At(Flat,Axle). Both of these are present in the state, so
we have a solution: the actions Remove(Spare, Trunk) and Remove(Flat, Axle) in level
A ,followedby Put On(Spare,Axle)in A .
0 1
In the case where EXTRACT-SOLUTION fails to find a solution for a set of goals at
a given level, we record the (level,goals) pair as a no-good, just as we did in constraint
learningfor CS Ps(page220). Whenever EXTRACT-SOLUTION iscalledagainwiththesame
levelandgoals, wecanfindtherecorded no-good andimmediately returnfailure ratherthan
searching again. Weseeshortlythatno-goods arealsousedinthetermination test.
Weknow that planning is PSPACE-complete and that constructing the planning graph
takespolynomialtime,soitmustbethecasethatsolutionextractionisintractableintheworst
case. Therefore,wewillneedsomeheuristic