rules of inferences that are applicable, one can, by a purely syntactic ing, produce new sentences that are guaranteed to be true. How does one decide that a rule of inf rule is sound whenever it is based on a tautological implication, that is, a sentence in which e is the implication, and the sentence is always true. The underlying sentence for the rule modus po (a B) A a) B) ollowing truth table that looks at all valuations of a and B, demonstrates that the sentence is indee A tautological implication. a B (a Bp) (a Bp) Aw ((a B) A true true true true true false true true false true true false false false true false false true false true 2 of inference is an extra-logical statement that gives us license to add new sentences or formu set of sentences. If the rule of inference is valid or sound, and one starts with a set of true sentence yr premises, then the application of the rule will add more sentences that are true. If we buil y with sound rules of inference we build a deductive system. One can deduce new facts from old o guaranteed to be true. We say that the logic is sound. can build a deductive logic system by choosing any rules that are based on a tautological infere encouraged to verify that all the rules given in Figure 12.6 are sound. Let us look at an example of a Ind. aD B R HOl CAGIIVIC lo cd Ialiiiial HMMS aUOr OF ail CHOMCOUS HHCICMCe Uldal ONG THQI TIAANG. Tie SeUOrld is the same form, is also not a sound inference. But as we all know such inferences are often n in detecting an illness, and can be very useful. However one must be careful to remember t S may not be valid, which is why diagnoses are sometime wrong. We fall iP Abductive inferen ; now on deductive inferences and constructing automatic theorem provers. a set of sentences (premises), a set of (sound) rules, and a desired sentence, a proof is a seq s culminating in the desired sentence. In a proof, each sentence is either a premise, or is generate yn of some rule. A proof for the above ex