a park. Some well known puzzles are problems of contingent planning. For example, the problem of identifying the defective (heavier or lighter) ball from a set of twelve balls, using a pair of weighing scales. Observe that a move here has different possible effects. For example, you might keep balls 3 and 7 on the left pan, and balls 8 and 9 on the right pan. The balance could go to one of the three states left heavier, right heavier, or balanced. In contingent planning, one can sense this state. Like most planning problems, one may demand a solution optimal in the number of comparisons one is allowed to make. An interesting problem that has both a contingent solution as well as a conformant one is described in the exercises. Figure 10.11 illustrates common planning problem faced by residents of the IIT Madras campus. We consider two options available to people if they want to go the Central station to catch a train. They can walk to the MRTS station and take a train. Or they can look around for an autorickshaw and investigate whether the driver is willing? to go to the station, and if one is found hire it. There is another possible obstacle though, in the traffic, for the hiring-auto plan to succeed. A contingent planner may try for an auto before deciding to walk, but a conformant planner would have to commit to the MRTS plan because that succeeds in all possible worlds. AIMRTS Board At Park Ko LS AatCentral ) station 7 train station 7 Central N station 7 . Drive to f Sy Central s A unwilling 7 Look for Auto, QC AUIT-M FT autorickshaw willing I Hire auto f FIGURE 10.11 Reaching a train station. We assume two options are available. The dashed lines represent possible worlds a planner might encounter. A contingent planner could try both options, but a conformant planner would have to commit to a set of actions. Conformant planning aims at building plans that can cater to different situations but in which sensing of the state is not allowed. The uncertainty may be in