llowed,suchas Number Of Atoms In Universe 1070.
Finally, we can combine these sorts of elementary propositions (including the abbre-
viated forms for Boolean variables) by using the connectives of propositional logic. For
example, we can express The probability that the patient has a cavity, given that she is a
teenagerwithnotoothache, is0.1 asfollows:
P(cavity toothache teen) 0.1.
Sometimeswewillwanttotalkabouttheprobabilities ofallthepossible valuesofarandom
variable. Wecouldwrite:
P(Weather sunny) 0.6
P(Weather rain) 0.1
P(Weather cloudy) 0.29
P(Weather snow) 0.01,
butasanabbreviation wewillallow
P(Weather) (cid:16)0.6,0.1,0.29,0.01(cid:17),
Section13.2. Basic Probability Notation 487
wherethebold Pindicatesthattheresultisavectorofnumbers,andwherewe assumeapre-
defined ordering (cid:16)sunny,rain,cloudy,snow(cid:17) on the domain of Weather. We say that the
PROBABILITY Pstatementdefinesaprobabilitydistributionfortherandomvariable Weather. The Pnota-
DISTRIBUTION
tionisalsousedforconditionaldistributions: P(X Y)givesthevaluesof P(X x Y y )
i j
foreachpossible i,j pair.
Forcontinuousvariables,itisnotpossibletowriteouttheentiredistributionasavector,
becausethereareinfinitelymanyvalues. Instead,wecandefinetheprobabilitythatarandom
variabletakesonsomevalue xasaparameterized function of x. Forexample,thesentence
P(Noon Temp x) Uniform (x) 18C,26C expresses thebelief that the temperature at noon isdistributed uniformly between 18and 26
PROBABILITY degrees Celsius. Wecallthisaprobabilitydensityfunction.
DENSITYFUNCTION
Probability density functions (sometimes called pdfs) differ in meaning from discrete
distributions. Saying that the probability density is uniform from 18C to 26C means that
there is a 100 chance that the temperature will fall somewhere in that 8C-wide region
anda50 chancethatitwillfallinany4C-wideregion,andsoon. Wewritetheprobability
densityforacontinuousrandomvariable X atvaluexas P(X x)orjust P(x);theintuitive
definition of P(x)istheprobability that X 