 a good practice to write the base clauses in recursion first. Sometimes it is nece: ness. For example the following definition of natural numbers works only when the clauses are 1 suming that the successor function is defined over the entire set of positive and negative numbers. naturalNumber(0). naturalNumber(successor(N)) :- naturalNumber(N). quicksort example, though we have written the base clauses after the rules. This has been done he time the goal will not have empty lists as arguments, and the chosen order saves on calls to unif t because when the base clause does occur, the goal will not match the consequent part of the rule Jse will be tried next. Second Order Logic e from propositional logic to first order logic involved the introduction of variables and quantifiers o1 . In propositional logic, the smallest unit was the proposition. But with the hindsight of FOL one coul onal logic as employing predicates with constants as arguments. For example the statement So an be thought of as mortal(Socrates) . The use of quantifiers in FOL enabled one to talk of predica some assignments to variables or over all assignments. L a predicate symbol stood for a specific relation on the domain. One could think of a second order allows variable predicates. Given that a predicate of arity N is a subset of the D", where D is the dor of such subsets is the power set of the cross product. This gives us a glimpse of the number of variable can take. 36del showed in his Incompleteness Theorem that a second order or more powerful logic cannot be sistent at the same time. The proof of the theorem revolves around the construction of self r s that can neither be true nor false. While his proof is quite complex we can get an insight teness Theorem by trying to construct a machine that can talk about itself as shown by the logician F (1992). The machine operates on a vocabulary -, P, N, (,) and operates as follows. pression X is a non-empty string on the alphabet. We say that the exp