nwhichalltheassumptions
inoneoftheassumption setshold.
Truth maintenance systems also provide a mechanism for generating explanations.
EXPLANATION
Technically, an explanation of a sentence P is a set of sentences E such that E entails P.
If the sentences in E are already known to be true, then E simply provides a sufficient ba-
sis for proving that P must be the case. But explanations can also include assumptions ASSUMPTION
sentences that are not known to be true, but would suffice to prove P if they were true. For
example, one might not have enough information to prove that one s car won t start, but a
reasonableexplanationmightincludetheassumptionthatthebatteryisdead. This,combined
with knowledge of how cars operate, explains the observed nonbehavior. In most cases, we
willpreferanexplanation E thatisminimal,meaningthatthereisnopropersubsetof E that
isalsoanexplanation. An ATM Scangenerateexplanations forthe carwon tstart problem
bymakingassumptions (such as gasincar or battery dead ) inanyorderwelike, evenif
some assumptions are contradictory. Then we look at the label for the sentence car won t
start toreadoffthesetsofassumptions thatwouldjustify thesentence.
Theexact algorithms used toimplement truth maintenance systems arealittle compli-
cated,andwedonotcoverthemhere. Thecomputationalcomplexityofthetruthmaintenance
problem is at least as great as that of propositional inference that is, NP-hard. Therefore,
you should not expect truth maintenance to be a panacea. When used carefully, however, a
TMS can provide a substantial increase in the ability of a logical system to handle complex
environments andhypotheses.
12.7 THE INTERNET SHOPPING WORLD
Inthisfinalsection weputtogether allwehave learned toencode knowledge forashopping
research agent that helps a buyer find product offers on the Internet. The shopping agent is
given a product description by the buyer and has the task of producing a list of Web pages
that offer such a product for sale, and ranking which o