 Peppy can fly. The fact that we could add another sentence and change the decision does not bode well for the shortest path heuristic. In fact, we can add one more node to the network as shown on the right in the figure, and our original conclusion is reversed. Now the shorter path says that Peppy can fly. The only thing we did was to add some more information in the form of class subclass relations to the given set. The shortest path heuristic is oblivious to the fact that adding more detailed information does not change the nature of nodes. Clearly, we need a more robust method for choosing what properties to inherit. Before we proceed, we must observe that only one kind of negative path is acceptable which has exactly one negative edge as the ast edge in the path. That is, the path can only be of the form N,N :. . Ne; In essence, we cannot add an edge after a negative edge. Consider the following invalid paths, 1. peppy-Penguin-7Hexapoda:LivingCreatures 2. peppy-Penguin-sHexapoda-Arthropoda The first one says that penguins are not hexapoda, and hexapoda are living creatures. The second one says that penguins are not hexapoda, and that hexapoda are a kind of arthropoda. Now penguins are living creatures, but they are not arthropoda. But both the paths have the same structure. This shows that a path that has edges after the negative edge cannot be trusted, and is therefore invalid.2 Therefore, if a negative edge is there in a path, it must be the last edge in the path, and the path must end with it. The following discussion on admissible paths is derived from (Stein, 1989; 1992) and (Brachman and Levesque, 2004). A path supports a conclusion in one of the following two ways: A-N,:... N X supports the conclusion A X A:Ny:....Np7X supports the conclusion A 7X An inheritance graph supports the conclusion AX (or A 7X), if there exists an admissible path A-Ny-...-NyX (or A-Nq-...-Np 7X) in P. A path A-N,-...:Np (7)X is admissible, if every edge in it is admissible with