= green]. (size < 41, [number spots = 3 . . 81. .Iontop(a,b)], and so on. Complex. A logical product of selectors. A complex is a conjunctive description of some object (each selector in brackets is regarded as a conjunct). For example. a plant leaf might be represented as 410 Examples of Other Inductive Learners Chap. 19 Leaf-1 Icontains(Leaf_1 ,spots)ljcolor(Lea Ll) yellowj& lshape(Leaf_1 = curled)(Iength(Leaf_1) = 41lwidth(Leaf_1 = 2.31 This expression states that a particular leaf contains spots, is ye!lo.i, curled at the sides, is 4 cm in length and 2.3 cm wide. Cover. A cover of a set of events E is a set of complexes which describe or contain all events in E. A cover of the set E1 against the set E,, where E1 and E are disjointed is a set of complexes which cover all events in E1 and no event in E. For example, the complex [shape circle] (color red( (size < 51 covers the set of all red circles of size less than 5 and none of the set of circles greater than 5. Characteristic description. A description of a class of objects which uses descriptive facts that are true for all objects in the class and thus discriminates between objects in the class and all other objects. A characteristic description of a house is one which sets houses apart from all nonhouses. Discriminant description. A description of a class given in the context of a fixed set of other classes. A fruit tree that bears apples is a discriminant description of an apple tree within the Context of fruit trees. Given specifications for object descriptions and-the type of inductive assertions desired. INDUCE can discover and formulate general class descriptions of the objects. We give here only a brief outline of the basic steps followed when inducing a single-class description. I. The user initially makes a determination of all descriptor types (attributes or relations) needed to describe the objects. This requires a specification of type, the domains, and if appropriate, the conditions of applicabili