 summarized in Figure 20.6 where the underlined expressions are the results of the regression steps and the substitutions are as noted within the braces. In summary. the process described above produces a justified generalization a single traifling example as a learned concept. It does this in a two step process. of The first step creates an explanation that contains only relevent predicates. The second step uses the explanation structure to establish constraints on the predicate values that are sufficient for the explanation to apply in general. This differs from inductive learning in that a single training example is adequate to learn a valid description of the concept. Of course there is a trade-off here, The EBL method also requires appropriate domain knowledge as well as a definition of the target concept. Goal concept: SAFE-TO-STACKI'r,y) /p,. y SAFE -TO -STACK (P,P,) 1 LIGHTER(P,.P) s/P.. VP. 3 WEIGHT(p,,w,) LESS(w.w2) WEIGMT(i.wa) WEIGHT( LESS2 Tlywl 414 VO LUME(p. 2 DENS ITY(p,.d,) 1 ISAt P2_efldt,Ie) V0LUME(a,'.j DENSITY( LESSh', d,.S) ndtae) Figure 20.6 Generalization by regression through the explanation structure. 430 Analogical and Explanation-Based Learning Chap. 20 There is an apparent paradox in the EBL method in that it may appear that no actual learning takes place since the system must be given a definition of the very concept to be learned! The answer to this dilemma is that a broader, generalized, and more useable definition is being learned. With the EBL method, existing knowledge is being transformed to a more useful form. And, the learned concept applies to a broader class than the supplied definition. This newly learned concept is a valid definition since it has been logically justified through the explanation process. The same claim cannot be made of other nondeductive learning techniques like inductive or analogical learning. The notion of operationality used in EBL systems should depend on the purpose of the learning system. As such, it 