 a fact that causes serious difficulties.
Forexample, suppose that T(Tall(Nate)) 0.6and T(Heavy(Nate)) 0.4. Thenwehave
T(Tall(Nate) Heavy(Nate)) 0.4, which seems reasonable, but we also get the result
T(Tall(Nate) Tall(Nate)) 0.4, which does not. Clearly, the problem arises from the
inabilityofatruth-functionalapproachtotakeintoaccountthecorrelationsoranticorrelations
amongthecomponent propositions.
Fuzzycontrolisamethodologyforconstructingcontrolsystemsinwhichthemapping
FUZZYCONTROL
between real-valued input and output parameters is represented by fuzzy rules. Fuzzy con-
trolhasbeenverysuccessful incommercial products suchas automatic transmissions, video
Section14.8. Summary 551
cameras, and electric shavers. Critics (see, e.g., Elkan, 1993) argue that these applications
are successful because they have small rule bases, no chaining of inferences, and tunable
parameters that can be adjusted to improve the system s performance. Thefact that they are
implemented with fuzzy operators might be incidental to their success; the key is simply to
provideaconcise andintuitivewaytospecify asmoothlyinterpolated, real-valued function.
Therehavebeenattemptstoprovideanexplanation offuzzylogicintermsofprobabil-
itytheory. Oneideaistoviewassertionssuchas Nateis Tall asdiscreteobservations made
concerningacontinuoushiddenvariable,Nate sactual Height. Theprobabilitymodelspeci-
fies P(Observersays Nateistall Height),perhapsusingaprobitdistributionasdescribed
on page 522. A posterior distribution over Nate s height can then be calculated in the usual
way,forexample,ifthemodelispartofahybrid Bayesiannetwork. Suchanapproach isnot
truth-functional, ofcourse. Forexample,theconditional distribution
P(Observersays Nateistallandheavy Height,Weight)
allows for interactions between height and weight in the causing of the observation. Thus,
someone who iseight feet tall and weighs 190 pounds is very unlikely tobe called tall and
heavy, eventhough eightfeet countsas tall and 190pounds counts as