tion methods described in Section 18.4 and explain when each method would be appropriate to use. 18.11. Referring to the previous problem, rank the generalization methods by estimated computation time required to perform each. 18.12. Give an example of learning the negative of the concept"tall flower or red object.' that is, something that is 'neither a tall flower nor a red object." 'li-I Examples 'of Other Inductive Learners 19.1 INTRODUCTION In this chapter we continue with our study of inductive learning. Here, we review four other important learning systems based on the inductive paradigms. Pcr I'aps the most significant difference among these systems is the type of knowledr,e representation scheme and the learning algorithms used. The first system we describe, 103, constructs a discrimination tree for use in classifying objects. The second system, LEX, creates and refines heuristic rules for carrying Out symbolic integrations. The third system, INDUCE, constructs descriptions in an extended form of predicate calculus. These descriptions are then used to classify objects such as soybean diseases. Our final system, Winston's Arch, forms conjunctive network structures similar to the ones described in the previous chapter. 19.2 THE ID3 SYSTEM 103 was developed in the late 1970s (Quinlan, 1983) to learn object classifications from labeled training examples. The basic algorithm is based on earlier research programs known as Concept Learner Systems or CLSs (Hunt et al., 1966). This 401 27402 Examples of Other Inductive Learners Chap. 19 system is also similar in many respects to the expert system architecture described in Section 15.3. 0 The CLS algorithms start with a set of training objects = {0 1, 02..... o,,} from a universe U. where each object is described by a set of m attribute values. An attribute A1 having a small number of discrete values ajj, aj2..... is selected and a tree node structure is formed to represent Ar The node has k, branches emanating from i