ity. These relationships are represented by the Bayesian network structure shown
in Figure 14.1. Formally, the conditional independence of Toothache and Catch, given
Cavity,isindicated bytheabsence ofalinkbetween Toothache and Catch. Intuitively, the
network represents the fact that Cavity is a direct cause of Toothache and Catch, whereas
nodirectcausalrelationship existsbetween Toothache and Catch.
Now consider the following example, which is just a little more complex. You have
a new burglar alarm installed at home. It is fairly reliable at detecting a burglary, but also
responds on occasion to minor earthquakes. (This example is due to Judea Pearl, a resident
of Los Angeles hencetheacuteinterestinearthquakes.) Youalsohavetwoneighbors,John
and Mary, who have promised to call you at work when they hear the alarm. John nearly
always calls when he hears the alarm, but sometimes confuses the telephone ringing with
Cavity
Weather
Toothache Catch
Figure 14.1 A simple Bayesian network in which Weather is independentof the other
threevariablesand Toothache and Catch areconditionallyindependent,given Cavity.
512 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
P(B) P(E)
Burglary Earthquake
.001 .002
B E P(A)
t t .95
Alarm
t f .94
f t .29
f f .001
A P(J) A P(M)
John Calls Mary Calls
t .90 t .70
f .05 f .01
Figure14.2 Atypical Bayesiannetwork,showingboththetopologyandtheconditional
probabilitytables(CP Ts). Inthe CP Ts, theletters B, E, A, J, and M standfor Burglary,
Earthquake,Alarm,John Calls,and Mary Calls,respectively.
the alarm and calls then, too. Mary, on the other hand, likes rather loud music and often
misses thealarm altogether. Giventhe evidence ofwhohasor hasnot called, wewouldlike
toestimatetheprobability ofaburglary.
A Bayesian network for this domain appears in Figure 14.2. The network structure
shows that burglary and earthquakes directly affect the probability of the alarm s going off,
but whether John and Mary call depends only on the alarm. The network thus represents
