tsystemresearchconcentrated onansweringquestions, ratherthanonmak-
ing decisions. Those systems that did recommend actions rather than providing opinions on
matters of fact generally did so using condition-action rules, rather than with explicit rep-
resentations of outcomes and preferences. The emergence of Bayesian networks in the late
1980s made it possible to build large-scale systems that generated sound probabilistic infer-
ences from evidence. The addition of decision networks means that expert systems can be
developed that recommend optimal decisions, reflecting the preferences of the agent aswell
astheavailable evidence.
A system that incorporates utilities can avoid one of the most common pitfalls associ-
atedwiththeconsultationprocess: confusinglikelihoodandimportance. Acommonstrategy
inearlymedicalexpertsystems,forexample,wastorankpossiblediagnosesinorderoflike-
lihood and report the most likely. Unfortunately, this can be disastrous! Forthe majority of
patientsingeneralpractice,thetwomostlikelydiagnosesareusually There snothingwrong
withyou and Youhaveabadcold, butifthethirdmostlikelydiagnosisforagivenpatient
is lung cancer, that s a serious matter. Obviously, a testing or treatment plan should depend
both on probabilities and utilities. Current medical expert systems can take into account the
valueofinformation torecommendtests,andthendescribea differential diagnosis.
634 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
Wenowdescribe theknowledge engineering process fordecision-theoretic expert sys-
tems. Asanexample weconsider theproblem ofselecting amedical treatment forakind of
congenital heartdiseaseinchildren(see Lucas,1996).
About0.8 ofchildren are born withaheart anomaly, the most commonbeing aortic
AORTIC coarctation (aconstriction oftheaorta). Itcanbetreatedwithsurgery, angioplasty (expand-
COARCTATION
ingtheaortawithaballoonplacedinsidetheartery),ormedication. Theproblemistodecide
whattreatmenttouseandwhentodoit: theyoungertheinfant,thegreatertherisksofce