ut those individuals for whom the premise is false. Thus, the
truth-table definition of turns out to be perfect for writing general rules with universal
quantifiers.
Acommonmistake,madefrequently evenbydiligent readers whohavereadthispara-
graphseveraltimes,istouseconjunction instead ofimplication. Thesentence x King(x) Person(x)
wouldbeequivalent toasserting
Richardthe Lionheartisaking Richardthe Lionheartisaperson,
King Johnisaking King Johnisaperson,
Richard sleftlegisaking Richard sleftlegisaperson,
andsoon. Obviously, thisdoesnotcapturewhatwewant.
Section8.2. Syntaxand Semanticsof First-Order Logic 297
Existentialquantification( )
Universalquantificationmakesstatementsabouteveryobject. Similarly,wecanmakeastate-
ment about some object in the universe without naming it, by using anexistential quantifier.
Tosay,forexample,that King Johnhasacrownonhishead,wewrite x Crown(x) On Head(x,John). xispronounced Thereexistsan xsuchthat... or Forsome x... .
Intuitively, the sentence x P says that P is true for at least one object x. More
precisely, x P is true in a given model if P is true in at least one extended interpretation
thatassignsxtoadomainelement. Thatis,atleastoneofthefollowingistrue:
Richardthe Lionheartisacrown Richardthe Lionheartison John shead;
King Johnisacrown King Johnison John shead;
Richard sleftlegisacrown Richard sleftlegison John shead;
John sleftlegisacrown John sleftlegison John shead;
Thecrownisacrown thecrownison John shead.
The fifth assertion is true in the model, so the original existentially quantified sentence is
true in the model. Notice that, by ourdefinition, the sentence would also be true in a model
in which King John was wearing two crowns. This is entirely consistent with the original
sentence King Johnhasacrownonhishead. 7
Justas appearstobethenaturalconnectivetousewith , isthenaturalconnective
to use with . Using as the main connective with led to an overly strong statement in
theexample inthe previous section; using with usually 