of reasoning (ten Berge and van Hezewijk, 1999). This view has been supported by evolutionary biology as well. The mind is a squadron of simpletons. It is not unified, it is not rational, it is not well designed or designed at all. It just happened, an accumulation of innovations of the organisms that lived before us (Ornstein, 1991). This view has found expression in artificial intelligence too, with Marvin Minsky (1998) proposing a society of mind. Towards the end of the last century, it became evident that there was a distinction between two kinds of memory, one that is accessible to conscious recollection, and another that is not (Squire, 1987). The former is referred to as declarative in nature, and is primarily the subject of interest from the symbolic knowledge representation point of view in artificial intelligence. The second, originally called procedural, is concerned with all kinds of learned reflex behaviour. The declarative memory is concerned with knowing facts and figures, while the procedural memory is concerned with knowing how to do things. Figure 11.3 depicts the basic taxonomy of memory described by Squire (adapted from (Rose, 1998)). Declarative Memory Procedural Memory Semantic Memory Episodic Memory Motor Skill Learming Perceptual Learning z-Term Memory nce Memory Short-Term Memory Conditioning Cognitive Recognition Recall FIGURE 11.3 A neuroscientist s view of the taxonomy of memory. figure adapted from (Rose, 1998). The procedural memory in the figure is long term in nature. It is the kind of knowledge that is involved in motor skills or perception that is acquired by a process of repeated learning that results in modification of some performance system. It is a form of learning that is invoked by the reactivation of certain part of the brain. Examples of such learned behaviours are riding a bicycle, swimming or even singing. These skills are hard to express verbally. Such learned behaviour would be part of a control system of a robot. Condi