t is sometimes the case that there is not a single knowledge base that captures the beliefs of all the agents involved in solving a problem. This would happen in our murder scenario if we were to attempt to model the reasoning of Abbott, Babbitt, and Cabot, as well as that of the police investigator. To be able to do this reasoning, we would require a technique for maintaining several parallel belief spaces, each of which would correspond to the beliefs of one agent. Such techniques are complicated by the fact that the belief spaces of the various agents, although Symbolic Reasoning Under Uncertainty 149 not identical, are sufficiently similar that it is unacceptably inefficient to represent them as completely separate knowledge bases. In Section 15.4.2 we return briefly to this issue. Meanwhile, in the rest of this chapter, we describe techniques for nonmonotonic reasoning. Conventiotnal reasoning systems, such first-order predicate logic, are designed to work with information that has three important properties: It is complete with respect to the domain of interest. In other words, all the facts that are necessary to solve a problem are present in the system or can be derived from those that are by the conventional rules of first-order logic. It is consistent. The only way it can change is that new facts can be added as they become available. If these new facts are consistent with all the other facts that have already been asserted, then nothing will ever be retracted from the set of facts that are known to be true. This property is called monotonicity. Unfortunately, if any of these properties is not satisfied, conventional logic-based reasoning systems become inadequate. Nonmonotonic reasoning systems, on the other hand, are designed to be able to solve problems in which all of these properties may be missing. In order to do this, we must address several key issues, including the following: 1. How can the knowledge base be extended to allow inferences to be made