ocess called knowledgeacquisition. Atthisstage, theknowledge isnotrepresented
ACQUISITION
formally. Theideaistounderstand thescope oftheknowledge base, asdetermined by
thetask,andtounderstand howthedomainactuallyworks.
For the wumpus world, which is defined by an artificial set of rules, the relevant
knowledge is easy to identify. (Notice, however, that the definition of adjacency was
not supplied explicitly in the wumpus-world rules.) For real domains, the issue of
relevance can be quite difficult for example, a system for simulating VLSI designs
mightormightnotneedtotakeintoaccountstraycapacitances andskineffects.
308 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
3. Decide on a vocabulary of predicates, functions, and constants. That is, translate the
important domain-level concepts intologic-level names. Thisinvolves manyquestions
of knowledge-engineering style. Like programming style, this can have a significant
impact on the eventual success of the project. Forexample, should pits be represented
by objects or by a unary predicate on squares? Should the agent s orientation be a
function or a predicate? Should the wumpus s location depend on time? Once the
choices have been made, the result is a vocabulary that is known as the ontology of
ONTOLOGY
the domain. The word ontology means a particular theory of the nature of being or
existence. Theontology determines what kinds of things exist, but does not determine
theirspecificproperties andinterrelationships.
4. Encode general knowledge about the domain. The knowledge engineer writes down
the axioms for all the vocabulary terms. This pins down (to the extent possible) the
meaningoftheterms, enabling theexpert tocheck thecontent. Often,thisstepreveals
misconceptions orgaps in the vocabulary that mustbe fixedby returning tostep 3 and
iteratingthrough theprocess.
5. Encode a description of the specific problem instance. If the ontology is well thought
out, this step will be easy. It will involve writing simple atomic sentences about i