closest connected node, again labeling the new node. This process is repeated until all nodes having are distances less than some value (such as a function of the average arc distances) have been connected. An example of an MST is gisen in Figure 14.15. Another graphical approach is based on the assignment of a cost or other measure ofmerit to pisel groupings,The cost assignment can he based on a simple function of features such as intensity. orientation, or color. A best-first (branchand-bound) or other form of graph search is then performed using sonic heuristic function to determine a least-cost path which represents the edge contour. Other edge finding approaches are based on fitting a low degree pol ynomial to a number of edge pieces which have been found through local searches. The resultant polynomial curve segment is then taken as the edge boundary. This approach is similar to one which compares edge templates to short groupings of pieces. If a particular matching template scores above some threshold, the template pattern is then used to define the contour. Figure 14. IS Edge finding using minimum spanning tree. 'ec. 14.3 Intermediate-Level Image Processing 301 Edge Finding with Dynamic Programming Edge following can also be formulated as a dynamic programming problem since picking a best edge path is a type of sequential optimizion problem. Candidate edge pieces are assigned a local cost value based on some feature such as intensity, and the path having minimum cost is defined as the edge contour. Assume that a starting point E, has been selected. Dynamic programming begins with a portion of the problem and finds an optimal solution for this subproblem. The subproblem is then enlarged, and an optimal solution is found for the enlarged problem. This process continues step-by-step until a global optimum for the whole problem has been found (a path to the terminal edge point Es). The process can be described mathematically as a recursive process. Let C(s,t,,) 