e of events in a restaurant. John did not get mad because he was shown to his table. He did get mad because he had to wait to be served. Once the typical sequence of events is interrupted, the script can no longer be used to predict other events. So, for example, in this story, we should not infer that John paid his bill. But we can infer that he saw a menu, since reading the menu would have occurred before the interruption. For a discussion of SAM, a program that uses scripts to perform this kind of reasoning, see Cullingford [1981]. From these examples, we can see how information about typical sequences of events, as represented in scripts, can be useful in interpreting a particular, observed sequence of events. The usefulness of a script in some of these examples, such as the one in which unobserved events were predicted, is similar to the usefulness of other knowledge structures, such as frames. In other examples, we have relied on specific properties of the information stored in a script, such as the causal chain represented by the events it contains. Thus although scripts are less general structures than are frames, and so are not suitable for representing all kinds of knowledge, they can be very effective for representing the specific kinds of knowledge for which they were designed. 216 Artificial Intelligence 10.3 CYC CYC [Lenat and Guha, | 990] is a very large knowledge base project aimed at capturing human commonsense knowledge. Recall that in Section 5.1, our first attempt to prove that Marcus was not loyal to Caesar failed because we were missing the simple fact that all men are people. The goal of CYC is to encode the large body of knowledge that is so obvious that it is easy to forget to state it explicitly. Such a knowledge base could then be combined with specialized knowledge bases to produce systems that are less brittle than most of the ones available today. Like CD, CYC represents a specific theory of how to describe the world, and like CD, it ca