bjects k, in the universe is n 198 Matching Techniques Chap. .10 Equation 10.5 measures the mean square difference in universe membership scores between A and B. A score of I implies that the distance is maximal, wherea'-, a score near zero can signity that either A and B are very similar or that iliosi objects have low membership scores in both fuzzy sets. Therefore. care must he exercised when interpreting such measures.. Fuzzy similarity measures can be defined with inverse functions of tu,tv distances such as the measure defined in equation 10.5 above. An even simpler measure is. of course, the characteristic function u itself, which may he regarded as a measure s of the distance of an object .r, with respect to ome reference fuity set. In that case, distance is interpreted as a function of the inverse of degree of membership. Rather than the distance or similarity between two sets or a set and an object. we may be interested in the distance or similatity between objects xi thenisekes. where the fuzzy sets represent traits or characteristics of the objects. One such si iii i laritv measure for this is = (I - i,()]) 10.61 which gives the mean trait membership difference between two objects ., and .i,,. Of course .s(.v., 0 corresponds to equal likeness or maximal similarity, and I for i j corresponds to maximum dissimilarity. 10.4 MATCHING LIKE PATTERNS in this section we consider procedures which amount to performing a complete match between tw' structures. The match will he accomplished by comparing the two stru Ctures and testing forequality among the correspondin g parts. Pattern variables will he used for instantiations of some parts subject to restrictions as noted below Matching Substrings Since many of the representation structures are just character strings, a basic function required in many match algorithms is to determine if a substring S consisting of fit characters occurs somewhere in a string S 1 of pm characters, In n. A direct approach to this prob