mplexes in the thymic region. Cells that show a high affinity (or binding) to such complexes are discarded. Those that exhibit low affinities are allowed to flow out into the blood stream. The thymus thus produces a repertoire of T-cells that are capable of recognizing the non-self. Negative selection may not be perfect. Some T-cells that do have affinities with the self do leak out of the periphery of the thymus. This in turn increases the possibility of an autoimmune? disease affecting the body. Both positive and negative selections ensure that the T-cells are able to distinguish between the cells of the self (the body) from those of the foreign invaders. Had such a selection not been made, these cells would have treated all self cells to be pathogens and triggered a self damaging avalanche! 24.5.2 B-cells In contrast to the T-cells that require MHC molecules for detection, the B-cells are capable of recognizing antigenic material in a solution. This is done by receptors present on the surface of these ceils which respond to specific antigens and become activated on recognition. This leads to their differentiation into plasma cells. The plasma cells secrete antibodies in huge quantities, which in turn destroy the invading pathogens. See Fig. 24.2 for the depiction. Receptor detecting an Epitope of the antigens Antibodies neutializing the antigens Fig. 24.2 B-Cell Response to an Antigen B-cell Generation B-cell development commences initially in the fetal liver and continues in the bone marrow throughout the life of the organism. The immature B-cells undergo changes inside the bone in a manner that they can distinguish the self cells from the non self (antigenic) cells. Mature B-cells that move to the periphery may come in Artificial Immune Systems 483 contact with antigenic material resulting in an immune action and producing antibody-secreting plasma cells or forming an immune memory cell. Undeveloped B-cells are auto programmed to die (apoptosis'). What is most 