 frame entity, pointers to related frames, Chap. 7 Ex.,clses 145 procedures; or even other subframes. Inference with frames is accomplished through property inheritance, default values, embedded procedures, and the use of heuristics. Finally, we descijbed a special frame-like structure called a script. Scripts are used to represent stereotypical patterns for commonly occurring events. Conceptual dependency theory provides primitive building blocks for actions and states that occur within a script. Like a play, a script contains actors, roles, props, and scenes which combine to represent a familiar situation. Scripts have been used in a number of programs which read and "understand" language in the form of stones. EXERCISES 7,1 Express the following concepts as an associative network structure with interconnected nodes and labeled arcs. Company ABC is a software development company. Three departments within the company are Sales. Administration, and Programming. Joe is the manager of Programming. Bill and Sue are programmers. Sue is married to Sam. Sam is an editor for street. Sue wears glasses and is five feet four inches tall. 7.2 Write LISP expressions which represent the associative network of Problem 7.1. a. using property lists, and b. using a-lists. 7.3 Write PROLOG expressions which represent the associative network of Pru61em 7.1. 7.4 Transform the FOPL statements given below into equivalent conceptual graphs. a. Vx NORMAL(x) & GROWN(x)-.WALK(x). b. Vx,y MARRIED(x,y) - MARRIED(y,X). c. Yx HASWINGS(x) & LAYSEGGS(x) -. ISBIRD(x). 7.5 Transform the. following conceptual graphs into equivalent FOPL statements. a. IPERSON:sucl '-(AGENT) [DRINK]- (OBJECT)-. IFOOD:milkl (INSTRUMENT)-. IGLASSI b. (PAST)-. IICAMEL:clydel -(AGENT) '(DRINKI-. (OBJECr)- IWATERI-. (A11'RIBIJTE)-. 150-GALLONSII 7.6 The original primitives of conceptual dependency theory developed by Schank fail to represent some important concepts directly. What additional primitives can you discover that