uistshaveidentifiedabout100speechsounds,orphones,thatcanbe
PHONE
composed to form all the words in all known human languages. Roughly speaking, a phone
is the sound that corresponds to a single vowel or consonant, but there are some complica-
tions: combinations ofletters,suchas th and ng producesinglephones, andsomeletters
producedifferentphonesindifferentcontexts(e.g.,the a inratandrate. Figure23.14lists
Section23.5. Speech Recognition 915
allthephones thatareused in English, withanexampleofeach. Aphonemeisthesmallest
PHONEME
unit of sound that has a distinct meaning to speakers of a particular language. Forexample,
the t in stick sounds similarenough tothe t in tick thatspeakers of Englishconsider
them thesamephoneme. Butthedifference issignificant inthe Thailanguage, sothere they
aretwophonemes. Torepresentspoken Englishwewantarepresentationthatcandistinguish
betweendifferentphonemes,butonethatneednotdistinguishthenonphonemicvariationsin
sound: loudorsoft,fastorslow,maleorfemalevoice,etc.
First, we observe that although the sound frequencies in speech may be several k Hz,
the changes in the content of the signal occur much less often, perhaps at no more than 100
Hz. Therefore, speechsystemssummarizetheproperties ofthesignalovertimeslicescalled
frames. Aframelength ofabout 10milliseconds (i.e.,80samples at 8k Hz)isshort enough
FRAME
toensurethatfewshort-duration phenomena willbemissed. Overlapping framesareusedto
makesurethatwedon tmissasignalbecause ithappens tofallonaframeboundary.
Eachframe issummarized byavectorof features. Picking outfeatures from aspeech
FEATURE
signal is like listening to an orchestra and saying here the French horns are playing loudly
and the violins are playing softly. We ll give a brief overview of the features in a typical
system. First, a Fourier transform is used to determine the amount of acoustic energy at
about a dozen frequencies. Then we compute a measure called the mel frequency cepstral
MELFREQUENCY
CEPSTRAL coefficient (MFCC)