acts as an organized memory repository for you, or cross checks your logical reasoning all of these will fall within the scope of our work. We will not address the issues of whether these programs are intelligent or not, specially in comparison to conscious articulate creatures like ourselves. Intelligence, thus, may manifest itself in the choice of goals an agent may choose, and the means adopted by the agent to achieve those goals. It also involves the ability to understand the situation and reason about the consequences of one s actions. It involves learning from experiences and adapting one s behaviour in a dynamic environment. Intelligence may involve doing calculated trade-offs between different options. It also shows up in appreciating an intricate work of art. But most of all, it involves being able to make sense of the world around us, and reasoning about change in this world. 1.4 The Bottom Line The distinctive features of intelligence can perhaps be summed up in one word imagination. We might go so far as to say that intelligence is the power of imagination. Perception is being able to imagine the world around us, but imagination also allows us to create new worlds, like fiction writers do for us. Planning by projecting the effects of our intended actions is imagining what would happen if we carried out those actions. Listening to a story is fascinating because of our ability to imagine the events in the narrative. Watching a real life athlete do a high jump is similar to watching her do it on television, because in both cases, it is our imagination that is triggered. Sometimes of course, our imagination goes out of sync with reality, and then we say we are deluded or hallucinating. The exception however proves the rule. It is our ability to reconstruct the world around us in our heads, to imagine, that is at the core of intelligent behaviour. Imagination is concerned with creating models of our surroundings in our heads, and being able to reason with tho