cessary for AIto become aseparate field. Whycouldn t all the workdone
in AI have taken place under the name of control theory or operations research or decision
theory, which, after all, have objectives similar to those of AI? Or why isn t AI a branch
of mathematics? The first answer is that AI from the start embraced the idea of duplicating
human faculties such as creativity, self-improvement, and language use. None of the other
fields were addressing these issues. The second answer is methodology. AI is the only one
ofthesefieldsthatisclearlyabranchofcomputerscience(althoughoperationsresearchdoes
share an emphasis on computer simulations), and AI is the only field to attempt to build
machinesthatwillfunction autonomously incomplex, changing environments.
1.3.3 Early enthusiasm, great expectations (1952 1969)
Theearly yearsof AIwerefullofsuccesses in alimitedway. Giventheprimitive comput-
ers and programming tools of the time and the fact that only a few years earlier computers
wereseenasthingsthatcoulddoarithmeticandnomore,itwasastonishingwheneveracom-
puterdidanything remotely clever. Theintellectual establishment, byandlarge, preferred to
believe that a machine can never do X. (See Chapter 26 for a long list of X s gathered
by Turing.) AI researchers naturally responded by demonstrating one X after another. John
Mc Carthyreferredtothisperiodasthe Look,Ma,nohands! era.
Newell and Simon s early success was followed up with the General Problem Solver,
or GPS. Unlike Logic Theorist, this program was designed from the start to imitate human
problem-solving protocols. Within the limited class of puzzles it could handle, it turned out
that the order in which the program considered subgoals and possible actions was similarto
thatinwhichhumansapproached thesameproblems. Thus, GPS wasprobably thefirstpro-
gramtoembodythe thinkinghumanly approach. Thesuccess of GPS andsubsequentpro-
gramsasmodelsofcognitionled Newelland Simon(1976)toformulatethefamousphysical
PHYSICALSYMBO