h with its own truth maintenance facility. The constraint language allows for the expression of facts that are too complex for any of these mechanisms to handle. The constraint language also provides an elegant, abstract layer of representation. In reality, CYC maintains two levels of representation: the epistemological level (EL) and the heuristic level (HL). The EL contains facts stated in the logical constraint language, while the HL contains the same facts stored using efficient inference templates. There is a translation program for automatically converting an EL statement into an efficient HL representation. The EL provides a clean, simple functional interface to CYC so that users and computer programs can easily insert and retrieve information, from the knowledge base. The EL/HL distinction represents one way of combining the formai neatness of logic with the computational efficiency of frames. In addition to frames, inference mechanisms, and the constraint language, CYCL performs consistency checking (e.g., detecting when an illegal value is placed on a slot) and conflict resolution (e.g., handling cases where multiple inference procedures assign incompatible values to a slot). 10.3.3. Control and Meta-Knowledge Recall our discussion of control knowledge in Chapter 6, where we saw how to take information about control out of a production system interpreter and represent it declar-atively using rules. CYCL strives to accomplish the same thing with frames. We have already seen how to specify whether a fact is propagated in the forward or backward direction this is a type of control information. Associated with each slot is a set of inference mechanisms that can be used to compute values for it. For any given problem, CYC s reasoning is constrained to a small range of relevant, efficient procedures. A query in CYCL can be tagged with a level of effort. At the lowest level of effort, CYC merely checks whether the fact is stored in the knowledge base. At higher l