 strategy provides
the opponent with information. Hence, optimal play in partially observable games requires
a willingness to play somewhat randomly. (This is why restaurant hygiene inspectors do
randominspection visits.) Thismeansoccasionally selecting movesthatmayseem intrinsi-
cally weak buttheygainstrengthfromtheirveryunpredictability, becausetheopponentis
unlikely tohaveprepared anydefenseagainstthem.
From these considerations, it seems that the probabilities associated with the board
states in the current belief state can only be calculated given an optimal randomized strat-
egy; in turn, computing that strategy seems to require knowing the probabilities of the var-
ious states the board might be in. This conundrum can be resolved by adopting the game-
theoretic notion of an equilibrium solution, which we pursue further in Chapter 17. An
equilibrium specifies an optimal randomized strategy for each player. Computing equilib-
ria is prohibitively expensive, however, even for small games, and is out of the question for
Kriegspiel. At present, the design of effective algorithms for general Kriegspiel play is an
open research topic. Most systems perform bounded-depth lookahead in their own belief-
statespace, ignoring theopponent s beliefstate. Evaluation functions resemble those forthe
observable gamebutincludeacomponent forthesizeofthebeliefstate smallerisbetter!
5.6.2 Cardgames
Card games provide many examples of stochastic partial observability, where the missing
informationisgeneratedrandomly. Forexample,inmanygames,cardsaredealtrandomlyat
the beginning of the game, with each player receiving a hand that is not visible to the other
players. Suchgamesincludebridge, whist,hearts, andsome formsofpoker.
Atfirstsight,itmightseemthatthesecardgamesarejustlikedicegames: thecardsare
dealtrandomlyanddeterminethemovesavailabletoeachplayer,butallthe dice arerolled
atthe beginning! Even though this analogy turns out tobe incorrect, itsuggests an effective
algorithm: consi