 for nonmonotonic reasoning about the world is the following: There are many fewer true statements than false ones. If something is true and relevant it makes sense to assume that it has been entered into our knowledge base. Therefore, assume that the only true statements are those that necessarily must be true in order to maintain the consistency of the knowledge base. We have already mentioned (in Section 6.2) one kind of reasoning based on this idea, the PROLOG concept of negation as failure, which provides an implementation of the idea for Horn clause-based systems. In the rest of this section we look at some logical issues that arise when we remove the Horn clause limitation. The Closed World Assumption A simple kind of minimalist reasoning is suggested by the Closed World Assumption or CWA (Reiter, 1978]. The CWA says that the only objects that satisfy any predicate P are those that must. The CWA is particularly powerful as a basis for reasoning with databases, which are assumed to be complete with respect to the properties they describe. For example, a personnel database can safely be assumed to list all of the company s employees. If someone asks whether Smith works for the company, we should reply no unless he is explicitly listed as an employee. Similarly, an airline database can be assumed to contain a complete list of all the routes flown by that airline. So if I ask if there is a direct flight from Oshkosh to El Paso, the answer should be no if none can be found in the database. The CWA is also useful as a way to deal with AB predicates, of the sort 156 Artificial Intelligence SA WE ERATED NCHA ORE OTE EMR LOR EE ETRE, we introduced in Section 7.2.1, since we want to take as abnormal! only those things that are asserted to be so. Although the CWA is both simple and powerful, it can fail to produce an appropriate answer for either of two reasons. The first is that its assumptions are not always true in the world; some parts of the world are not realistic