: couch is closely related to both couches and sofa. Many IRsystemsattempttoaccountforthesecorrelations.
Forexample, ifthequeryis couch , itwouldbeashametoexcludefromtheresultset
those documents that mention COUCH or couches but not couch. Most IR systems
do case folding of COUCH to couch, and some use a stemming algorithm to reduce
CASEFOLDING couches to the stem form couch, both in the query and the documents. This typically
STEMMING
yields a small increase in recall (on the order of 2 for English). However, it can harm
precision. For example, stemming stocking to stock will tend to decrease precision for
queries about eitherfootcoverings orfinancial instruments, although itcould improverecall
for queries about warehousing. Stemming algorithms based on rules (e.g., remove -ing )
cannot avoid this problem, but algorithms based on dictionaries (don t remove -ing if the
word is already listed in the dictionary) can. While stemming has a small effect in English,
it is more important in other languages. In German, for example, it is not uncommon to
see words like Lebensversicherungsgesellschaftsangestellter (life insurance company em-
ployee). Languages suchas Finnish, Turkish, Inuit, and Yupikhaverecursive morphological
rulesthatinprinciple generate wordsofunbounded length.
Thenextstepistorecognizesynonyms,suchas sofa for couch. Aswithstemming,
SYNONYM
this has the potential for small gains in recall, but can hurt precision. A user who gives the
query Tim Couch wants to see results about the football player, not sofas. The problem is
that languagesabhorabsolutesynonymsjustasnatureabhorsavacuum (Cruse,1986). That
is, anytime there aretwowords thatmean thesamething, speakers ofthelanguage conspire
to evolve the meanings to remove the confusion. Related words that are not synonyms also
play an important role in ranking terms like leather , wooden, or modern can serve
to confirm that the document really is about couch. Synonyms and related words can be
found in dictionari