helps to reduce noise and other unwanted features. This is followed by some form of edge detection such as the application of difference operators to the arrays. Edge fragments must then be joined to form Continuous contours which outline objects. Various techniques are available for these operations. The dual-of-the-edge-finding approach is region segmentation, which may be accomplished by region splitting, region growing, or a combination of both. Multihistograms and thresholding are commonly used techniques in the segmentation process. They are applied to one or more image features such as intensity, color, texture, shading, or optical flow in the definition of coherent regions. The end product of the segmentation process will be homogeneous regions. The properties of these regions and their interrelationships must be described in order that they may be identified in the high level processing stage. Regions can be described by boundary segments, vertices, number of holes, compactness. location, orientation, and so on. . The final stage is the knowledge application stage, since the regions must be interpreted and explained. This requires task or domain specific knowledge as well as some general world knowledge. The current state-of-the-art in computer Vision does npt permit the inrpretatioti of arbitrary complex scenes such as that depicted in Figure 14.1. Much work still remains before that degree of sophistication can be realized. EXERCISES 14.1. Visual continuity in TV systems is maintained through the generation of 15 frames per second. What characteristics must an ADC unit have to match this same level of continuity for a vision system with a 1024 *71024 pixel resolution? 324 Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 14.2. Describe the types of world knowledge a vision system must have to"comprehend" the scene portrayed in Figure 14.3. 14.3. Suppose the CPU in a vision system takes 200 nanoseconds to perform memory/ register transfers and 500 nanoseconds to perform