y want to achieve. Preservation goals like P-HEALTH and P-REPUTATION. These are goals that crop up when something is threatened. Crisis goals are special class of P-goals that might need drastic action. If other goals are present then C-goals might take the highest precedence. Instrumental goals are goals that realize the precondition of other goals. For example, if one has the goal of hitting someone, an instrumental goal of being near them might crop up. Delta goals are goals whose achievement results in state change. Examples are D-KNOW the goal of knowing something, D-PROX the goal of being in proximity of, and D-CONT the goal of getting control of something. The means of achieving a Goal is to have a Plan. A Plan is made up of Actions and embodies a strategy for achieving the Goal. Associated with each type of Goal may be a set of Plans, called planboxes in PAM. A planbox is essentially a canned Plan. Once you deploy a planbox, you have made the intentions of your Actions clear. Consider the goal D-CONT of getting control or possession of something. One assumes that the desired object is in possession of someone else. For example, Moe wanted Calvin s toy truck would translate to, GOAL: ( DCONT PLANNER HUMO OBJECT PHYSO OWNER HUM1 RECIPIENT HUMO) Here HUMO, HUM1 and PHYSO are tokens pointing to the appropriate frames representing the individuals and the object. PAM explains DCONT goals by the themes that people want things either because they are fond of them, or they have a use for them. Once PAM accepts the goal, it will set up expectations, looking for plans to achieve the goal. PAM associates several plans with achieving the D-CONT goal, and considers them in the following order. Their meanings are self-evident. ASK . EXPLAIN . BARGAIN . THREATEN . OVERPOWER 6. STEAL Associated with each planbox is the possible set of actions. If PAM hears next that Moe walked over to Calvin , it would go into a Bottom-up mode and figure out that walking over must be part of