 are matched against frames, and when a close match is found, a trigger status occurs. A trigger is a finding that is so strongly related to a disorder that the system regards it as an active hypothesis, one to be pursued further. A spe.:al is-sufficient slot is used to confirm the presence of a disease when key findings co-.elate with the slot contents. 340 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 Decision Tree Architectures Knoedge for expert systems may be stored in the form of a decision tree when the knowledge can be structured in a top-to-bottom manner. For example, the identification of objects (equipment faults, physical objects, diseases, and the like) an he made through a decision tree structure. Initial and intermediate nodes in the tree correspond to object attributes, and terminal nodes correspond to the identities of objects. Attribute values for an object determine a path to a leaf node in the tree which contains, the object's identification. Each object attribute corresponds to a nontemiinal node in the tree and each branch of the decision tree corresponds to all attribute value or set of vilues A segment of a decision tree knowledge structure taken from an expert system used to identify objects such as liquid chemical waste products is illustrated in Figure 15.5 Patterson, 197). Each node in the tree corresponds to an identif'yin attribute such as molecular weight, boiling point, burn test color, or solubilit y test results. Each branch emanating froni a node corresponds to a value or ranee of values for the attribute such as 20-37 degrees C, yellow, or nonsoluble in sulphuric acid. An identifica;ioii is made by traversing a path through the free (or network until the path k-ads to a unique leaf node which corresponds to the unknown object, identity. The knowledge base, which is the decision tree for an identification system. can be constructed with a special tree-building ediior or with a learning module. In either case, a set of the most discriminati