e mental and emotional processes that drive human behavior. As such, we should not he supriscd to learn that researchers in Al have much in common with psschologists. t)urii the past 20 years Al has 'adopted models of thinking and learning from psvcholiig,' while psychologists in turn have patterned many of their experiments On questions first raised by Al researchers. Al has given psychologists fresh ideas and enhanced their ability to model human cognitive functions on the computer. In their hook The Cognitive Computer. Schank and Childers 1984i estimate that ......Al has contributed more to psychology than any other discipline for sonic tone.' Because they share so many common interests, it has been claimed that ..\f researchers think less like computer scientists than they do pschologisis and philiio8 ' Overview of Artif Icll Intelligence Chap. 1 phers. As a consequence, researchers from Al and psychology We joined together at some universities to form a separate discipline known as cognitive science. This name has also been adopted by a few new companies offering Al services and products. Like Al researchers, cognitive scientists are interested in the computation processes required to perform certain human functions, and in the mental and computational states related to such processes. Like computer science, cognitive science is still searching for a theory and foundation that will qualify it as a science. Al also has much in common with engineering, pv Aicularly electrical (EE) and mechanical engineering (ME). Al and EE are both interested in computational processes and systems, and how they relate to senses of perception such as vision and speech. ME and Al share common interests in their desire to build intelligent robots. Their goals are to build robots that can see and niove around, perform mechanical tasks, and understand human speech. The field of linguistics shares an interest in the theory of grammars and languages with Al. Both fields have a desire to