the goal clause. Neither of the two refutations sho ses this strategy, but it is possible to find a refutation that does. reference is to derive the null clause. The null clause has zero literals. Let the clauses being resolved have hen the resolvent will have (N M 2) literals. This will be smaller than both parent clauses only if . The unit preference strategy says that one must prefer clauses of size 1. Then one can hope the size of the resolvent till it reaches size 0 for the null clause. Both examples above have usec se Strategy. irst Order Logic atic argument we have looked at earlier is not possible in propositional logic. We could try and form Ss as follows. P Socrates is a man Q Socrates is mortal oal would be Q, but to relate it to P we would need a rule of the form (P D Q) which would read If then Socrates is mortal . However what we have is All men are mortal which could also be writ . is a man then that someone is mortal . The mortality rule we have applied to someone but we inference about Socrates. 2 able to identify Socrates with someone in the rule we have, we need to break up our sente! onstituents, wats Ne gan talk about the individuals and their properties. We can do this by modi tation to use pre Keates. For the example in question we could now encode our sentences t s Man and Mortal as follows. FOL syntax uage of FOL is also defined in two parts, the logical part and the non-lagigal.nat he propositional logic the logical part of the vocabulary contains symbols like Nae vr , , and sets of brackets, and the constant symbols L and t .The language of FOL also uses a set of V V4, Vo, V3, ... though we commonly use x, y, Z, X1, 1, Z1, .-. as well. In addition there are 7 read as for all , and 3 read as there exists . The former is the universal quantifier and the a! quantifier . They are used to quantify the values a variable can take. Finally one may include thi as equals . on-logical part of FOL constitutes of three sets. 0, et of predicate symbols 