K weights using the LMS update rule. Finally, it returns the updated set of weights. 18.8 Artificial Neural Networks The field of Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) explores computer programs that are inspired by neural networks. The idea is to create artificial neurons that are models of real neurons, and connect them up together to form a complex system. As described in Section 4.3, ANNs have input neurons and output neurons, and connections between neurons whose strength is defined by a weight associated with each connection. Most networks are built to either classify patterns or recognize, store, and recall patterns. In either case, the strong points of ANNs are that they are tolerant of noise or error in the training input, and they also have the ability to generalize and interpolate from the set of seen patterns. The difficulty lies in determining the architecture of the network, the number of neurons and the connections between them, and the strengths of these connections. ANNs address these problems by Jearning these connections, through a process known as training. The number of neurons is usually determined by a process of trial and error using some heuristic knowledge. Training involves the process of adjusting the weights of these connections. This may either be a supervised procedure or an unsupervised one. Supervised training takes place by showing a large number of inputs to the system as well as the desired output. The learning algorithms then adjust the weights, such that the difference between the desired and the observed output is reduced. This can be visualized as traversing over an error landscape in which the minima occur when the network captures the patterns. We discuss them in the following section. Unsupervised learning on the other hand aims to exploit certain basic properties of the constituent neurons and connections to drive the system towards a stable configuration that is dependent upon the input patterns shown to the network. These are