s woods v o.. RIo P <> TRANS <= frog a ears Bob gun Fig. 10.2 The Dependencies of CD John ran. John is tall. John is a doctor. Anice boy. John s dog. John pushed the cert, John took the book from Mary. John ate ice cream with a spoon. John fertilized thefield. 4 The plants grew. Bill shot Bob. John ran yesterday, While going home, | saw afrog. iheard a frog in the woods. e Rule | describes the relationship between an actor and the event he or she causes. This is a two-way dependency since neither actor nor event can be considered primary. The letter p above the dependency link indicates past tense. Rule 2 describes the relationship between a PP and a PA that is being asserted to describe it. Many state descriptions, such as height, are represented in CD as numeric scales. !The lable shown in the figure is adapted from several tables in Schank [1973]. 210 Artificial Intelligence Rule 3 describes the relationship between two PPs, one of which belongs to the set defined by the other. e Rule 4 describes the relationship between a PP and an attribute that has already been predicated of it. The direction of the arrow is toward the PP being described. e Rule 5 describes the relationship between two PPs, one of which provides a particular kind of information about the other. The three most common types of information to be provided in this way are possession (shown as POSS-BY), location (shown as LOC), and physical containment (shown as CONT). The direction of the arrow is again toward the concept being described. Rule 6 describes the relationship between an ACT and the PP that is the object of that ACT. The direction of the arrow is toward the ACT since the context of the specific ACT determines the meaning of the object relation. Rule 7 describes the relationship between an ACT and the source and,the recipient of the ACT. Rule 8 describes the relationship between an ACT and the instrument with which it is performed. The instrument must always be a full conceptualization (