es announce a one-time, special sale starting on that Friday evening. ,mothy, fearing large crowds, now retracts the offer to accompany Sue, promising to go on some future date. On the Thursday before the sale was to commence, weather forecasts predicted heavy snow. Now. believing the weather would discourage most shoppers, Timothy once again agreed to join Sue But, unexpectedly, on the given Friday, the forecasts proved to be f Ise; so Timothy once again declined to go; This anecdote illustrates how one's beliefs can c hange in a dynamic environment. And, while one's beliefs may not fluctuate as much as Timothy's. in most situations. this form of belief revision is not uncommon. lndeea." fl is common enough that we label it as a form of commonsense reasoning, that is. reasoning with uncertain knowledge. Nonmonotonic Reasoning The logics we studied in the previous chapter are known as mon )t Oni C logics. The conclusions derived using such logics are valid deductions, and they remain so. Adding new axioms increases the amount of knowledge contained in the knowledge base. Therefore, the set of facts and inferences in sucb..,systems ch,n only grow larger; they can not be reduced; that is. they increase monotonically. The form of reasoning performed above by Timothy, on the other hand, is nonmonot)nic. New facts became known which contradicted and invalidated old knowledge. The old knowledge .was retracted cau.4 othigir dependent knowledge to become nvalid. thereby requiring further retracdbns. The retractions led to a shrinkage or nom tonic growth in the knowledge at times. 182 Dealing with Inconsistencies and Uncertainties Chap. 5. More formally, let KBL be a formal first order system consisting of a kjlowl'.dge base and some logic L. Then, if KB and K82 are knowledge bases where KB1 - KBL KB2 Kifi. U F, for some wif F, then KB1 K82 In other words, a first order KB system can only grow 11100onjca IIy with added knowledge. When building knowledge-based systems, it is 