a (Kautz and Selman, 1992; 1996; 1998), (Kautz et al., 1996), In the classical representation, the state is represented by a set of true propositions. If we treat each possible proposition as a Boolean variable, then we have the basis of encoding the planning problem as a satisfiability problem. Encoding planning as SAT is similar to encoding it into a CSP. Instead of constraints, the problem is expressed as a formula in propositional logic, and looks for a satisfying assignment to the propositional variables. The propositional variables, for example On(A, B), are called fluents, predicates that can change their value over time. We will represent fluents by the symbols f, f,, fo, fz, and so on, depending upon the situation. 10.3.1 Linear Encodings The basic idea in the so called linear encoding of planning into satisfiability is to add a time parameter to the fluents and express the relation between actions, preconditions and effects as well as the Frame axioms (Kautz and Selman, 1992). The SAT formula to be solved is composed of a set of clauses as follows, 1. Fluents from the initial state So. If So then fo is a clause, else 7 is a clause. In the planning example from Figure 10.4, we have the fluents On(A, B, to), Clear(A, to), 7Clear(B, to) for example. 2. Fluents from the goal state. Assuming that we need a plan of at most k steps, we add a fluent f, for every goal proposition feG. Observe that the goal G is usually incompletely specified. We only add the known fluents to the SAT encoding. 3. An action implies its preconditions. If an action holds (is true) at time ft then its preconditions must hold at time (t - 1)' . This is expressed as a clause (a 2 precond(a); ,) where precond(a) is the conjunction of the preconditions of action a. For example we have, (UnSt(A, B, t) D (On(A, B, t-1) A ArmEmpty(t-1)'1 A Clear(A, t-1)). 4. An action implies its effects, at time t. This is expressed as a clause (a effects(a);) where effects(a) is a conjunction of the positive