e the property Has-spine, yes with the frame Vertebrate, with the understanding that this property will be shared by all its specializations. Likewise, we can store a property Number-of-feet, 2 with the Frame Biped, the property Maintain-body-temperature, Yes with the frame Homeothermic, and the property Lays-eggs, Yes with the frame Oviparous. A frame stores a property value slot filler pair that is common to all its descendents. As a consequence, the descendent frames inherit the property and value from the frame. In Figure 14.5 below, the examples given above are shown along with some descendents. Homo-sapiens are descendents of Homeothermic, Biped, Mammals and Vertebrates. Consequently, human beings (homo sapiens) have the property of being warm-blooded (homeothermic) mammals with vertebras and two legs, apart from the explicitly stated property. Birds share three of the ancestors (in the taxonomy) of Homo-sapiens and have in addition the property that they lay eggs. (Vertbrates (:Has-spine Yes) (Homeothermic (:Maintain-body-temperature Yes) (Mammals (:Bones-in-middle-ear 3) (:Mammary-glands Yes) (Oviparous (:Lays-eggs Yes) a oo (Birds (Monotremes ae Yes) wn) FIGURE 14.5 A part of the taxonomy of life. A property stored in a frame is inherited by all its descendants. The Is-A relation is represented implicitly here by the dashed arrows. A frame system should be implemented with a generic procedure for inheritance that will propagate property values to all the descendants. This can be done in a data-driven manner. Whenever a property value is added to a frame, or modified, the procedure should traverse the subtree containing its descendants and add the property value to each descendant frame. When a new frame is inserted in the frame system, the procedure should traverse the subtree of all its ancestors, and copy property values from each ancestor. This can also be done in a demand (goal) driven manner. Whenever the fillers of a particular frame are needed, a tra