mperature, humidity, barometric pressure, and cloud coverage observations. The physical relationships which govern these phenomena are not fully understood; so predictability is far from certain. Even a business manager must make decisions based on uncertain predictions when the market for a new product is considered. Many interacting factors influence the market, including the target consumer's lifestyle, population growth, potential consumer income, the general economic climate, and many other dependent factors. RM Sec. 6.2 Bayesian Probabilistic Inference los In all of the above cases, the level of confidence placed in the hypothesized conclusions is dependent on the availability of reliable knowledge and the experience of the human prognosticator. Our objective in this chapter is to describe some approaches taken in Al systems to deal with reasoning under similar types of uncertain conditions. 6.2 BAYESIAN PROBABILISTIC INFERENCE The form of probabilistic reasoning described in this section is based on the Bayesian method introduced by the clergyman Thomas Bayes in the eighteenth century. This form of reasoning depends on the use of conditional probabilities of specifia events when it is known that other events have occurred. For two events H afl'l E with the probability P(E) > 0, the conditional probability of event H. given that event E has occurred, is defined as P(HIE)=p(H&E),p(E) (6.1) This expression can be given a frequency interpretation by considering a random expenthent which is repeated a large number of times, a. The number of occurrences of the event E, say No. (E), and of the joint event F! and E. No. (H & E), are recorded and their relative frequencies rf computed as ,f(E)N0 n a (6.2) When n is large, the two expressions (6.2) approach the corresponding probabilities respectively, and the ratio rf(H&E)/rf(E)p(H&L),p(E) then represents the proportion of times event H occurs relative to the occurrence of E. that is, the approximate conditional occur