ww.muzicsite.zzz composition artist Pandit Bhimsen Joshi http: www.muzicsite.zzz composition ae yg r, ; http: www.muzicsite.zzz composition musiclF orm 1 Vocal Thumri http: yw .muzicsite.zzz composition - 7 recording http: www muzicsite.zzz composition year a Times Music 1997 FIGURE 13.2 The underlying graph model for an RDF Description. The oval represents a resource, and the boxes represent values. The key features of RDF are the use of namespaces and URIs to enable the sharing of descriptions of properties of resources. It does not allow one to define new categories or classes. For that we need an extension of RDF known as RDF Schema (RDFS), which allows user defined classes and the expression of subclass properties. We will take that up in the next chapter in which we explore the representation and reasoning over taxonomies. If we need to define new applications or domain specific classes then we need to use an extension of RDF that allows such class definitions. For example, we might want to define thumri as a (type of) class to which many compositions belong. We can then define hindustan as a type of class, and be able to make statements like thumri is a subclass of hindustani. A language that allows us to do so is the resource description framework schema (RDFS). In the next chapter we will also look at the Web Ontology Language (OWL) which is an extension of RDFS. Figure 13.3 shows an example of statements in RDFS. The primary concern of RDF and RDFS is to express information in a uniform manner so that it can be easily processed by algorithms. An important feature is the use of a uniform vocabulary to avoid the problem of translations between different nomenclatures. We look at an example below. 13.3.1 The Dublin Core Metadata Initiative One noteworthy effort in this direction is the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative which defines the metadata needed to describe documents on the web (DCMI, 1999) (also see hitp: dublincore.org ). The Dublin Core element set (d