world, be-
causewithoutitthereisnowaytocombinemultipleobservations ofanygivenobject. When
objects in the world interact with each other in complex activities, understanding the world
requirescombiningdataassociationwiththerelationalandopen-universeprobabilitymodels
of Section14.6.3. Thisiscurrently anactiveareaofresearch.
15.7 SUMMARY
This chapter has addressed the general problem of representing and reasoning about proba-
bilistictemporalprocesses. Themainpointsareasfollows: Thechanging stateoftheworldishandled byusingasetofrandom variables torepre-
sentthestateateachpointintime. Representations can be designed to satisfy the Markov property, so that the future
is independent of the past given the present. Combined with the assumption that the
process is stationary that is, the dynamics do not change over time this greatly
simplifiestherepresentation. A temporal probability model can be thought of as containing a transition model de-
scribingthestateevolution andasensormodeldescribing theobservation process. The principal inference tasks in temporal models are filtering, prediction, smooth-
ing, and computing the most likely explanation. Each of these can be achieved using
simple,recursive algorithmswhoseruntimeislinearinthe lengthofthesequence. Threefamilies oftemporalmodels werestudied inmoredepth: hidden Markovmod-
els,Kalmanfilters,anddynamic Bayesiannetworks(whichinclude theothertwoas
specialcases). Unless special assumptions are made, as in Kalman filters, exact inference with many
statevariablesisintractable. Inpractice,theparticlefilteringalgorithmseemstobean
effectiveapproximation algorithm. Whentryingtokeeptrackofmanyobjects, uncertainty arisesastowhichobservations
belong to which objects the data association problem. The number of association
hypotheses is typically intractably large, but MCMC and particle filtering algorithms
fordataassociation workwellinpractice.
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL AND HISTORICAL NOTES
Manyofthebasic ideasforestimating thestateofdynamical