rst term constitutes the stimulation of the paratope of A,; by the idiotope of A,,; while the second signifies the suppression of A,; when its idiotope is recognized by the paratope of A,,. The penultimate term symbolizes the actual stimulation of the antibody by the antigen. The last term helps in purging those antibodies that do not contribute to the network (absence of interaction). It thus models the death of such antibodies. k, is a positive constant which governs the difference between stimulation and suppression. k, and k, weight the antigenic recognition and death rate of the non-contributing antibodies, Further a squashing function that helps ensure the stability of the concentrations is calculated as ~ c; = {1 + exp(0.5 ej}! (24.4) After the concentration of every antibody is found, further selection is done based on the roulette-wheel mechanism. Just as antibodies are formed in the bone marrow here too one has to find ways to produce them. In this model, random Condition-Action paratopes are generated. However not all of these are allowed to enter the network. This is done by finding their sensitivity to the antibodies that have already formed the network. The equations governing this are a i M= 2 4 (24,5) .. ul 8;, j C; (24.6) Mrz ~ uw where G; and 6, are the total sums of stimulation and suppression from the existing network over A,,;. An antibody is inducted into the network only if the stimulation level is higher than a predetermined threshold. Alternatively one may allow this if the difference between o; and 6, exceed this threshold. To limit the number of antibodies that form the network it is essential that some of them should die based on some relevant conditions. Thus the concentration level of an antibody is allowed to decay based on its nonselection or the number of penalty signals it generates. This simulates a lifetime for the antibody. More the reward more is its lifetime. Non-selection and penalties will only contribute to a decrease in its