 have been developed for the computation of exact solutions for the KB sentence probabilities, although methods for determining approximations were presented for both small and large matrices V. We do not consider those methods here. They may be found in Nilsson (1986). They are based on the use of the probability constraints l. and ,p= I. and the fact thatconsistcnt probability assignments are bounded by the hyperplanes of a certain convex hull. Suggestions have also been made for the partitioning of larger matrice into smaller ones to simplify the computations. 6.4 DEMPST.ER..SHAFER THEORY As noted in the previous section, the assumption of conditional independence is probably not warranted in many problems. There are other serious drawbacks in using Bayesian theory as a model of uncertain reasoning as well. To begin with. the probabilities are described as a single numeric point value. This can be a distortion of the precision that is actually available for supporting evidence. It amounts to an overstatement of the evidence giving support to many of our beliefs. When we assert wiqi probability 0.7 that the dollar will fall against the Japanese Yen over the . next six months, what we really mean is we have a fairly strong conviction dire is a chance.of about 0.6 to 0.8 say, that it will fall. Another problem with traditional theory is that there is no way to differentiate 116 Probabilistic Reasoning Chap. 6 between ignorance and uncertainty. These are distinctly different concepts and should be treated as such. For example, suppose we are informed that one of three terrorist groups. A, B, or C has planted a bomb in a certain government building. We may have some evidence to believe that group C is the guilty one and be willing to assign a measure of this belief equal to P(C) = 0.8. On the other hand, without more knowledge of the other two groups, we would not want to say that the probability is Q. I that each one of them is guilty. Yet, traditional theory would h