 of true and false sentences, and most sorting algorithms compare two elements at a time. 7 The cheetah is an example of such an event happening. The animal was so well suited to its predator life form, that the species stabilised into low genetic variation. With human civilization changing the face of the world totally, the same cheetah is a misfit and on the verge of extinction. 8 http: www.freemars.org jeff 2exp 100 answer.htm 9 Lisp has a built-in feature to handle large numbers. It has long been a favourite language of Al researchers, primarily because it allows dynamic structures to be built naturally, and its functional style allows the creation of domain specific operators easily. It has been on a little bit of a decline with the advent of other object-oriented languages, and a diminishing community makes it daunting for new entrants to try their hand at it. 10 http: ;www.iwr.uni-heidelberg.de groups comopt software TSPLIB95 uh Quoted from Wikipedia: http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Traveling salesman problem 12 The triangle inequality states that the sum of the distances along two sides of a triangle is larger than the distance along the third side. 13 The development of vertebrates (creatures with backbones) in nature is an example. The set of genes for developing the vertebra can be thought of as a BB. However nature took quite long to arrive at designs using vertebras, with the first appearance around the Cambrian explosion about 530 million years ago, much later in the journey of life begun 3.5 billion years ago. 14 Notice that we are not saying that they wil! come together to display complex behaviour. They might and when they do it is up to the selection mechanism to allow them to persist. 15 http: ;www.molbio.ku.dk MolBioPages abk PersonalPages Jesper Hoffmeyer.html 16 http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Common Era: The Common Era (CE), sometimes known as the Current Era or as the Christian Era, is the period of measured time beginning with the year 1 on the Greg