s depicted by shaded vertical bands for each case. FIGURE 15.26 The Fish and Shrink algorithm begins by keeping the widest bounds on the similarity values of all N cases. The feasible values are shown by the shaded vertical band for each case. The lower bound is 0 and the upper bound 1. It then fishes for a candidate, and computes the similarity of the query with the candidate. Having computed this similarity, it then inspects all relevant cases and shrinks their bounds based on the new information and the triangle inequality. This process continues till the time when there is enough information to select the cases as per the retrieval task. In the figure, it is assumed that the task is to retrieve all the cases above a given threshold t, marked as a horizontal line. Once this line separates the cases with higher similarity then retrieval can stop. If the requirement is to retrieve a set of cases that are sorted in addition then the process of computing similarity will continue till the retrieved cases do not have overlapping bounds. If it is KNN then it will terminate when the lower bounds of K best cases have no overlap with the other cases. At each stage, the candidate to be chosen is the one that has not yet made it but is most likely to make it into the retrieval set. This is indicated by the precision line p in the figure that marks the upper bound of the case. In the case of threshold based retrieval, the precision line is the highest upper bound of a case whose lower bound is below the threshold limit. In the case of KNN retrieval, it is the highest upper bound of a case that has Kor more cases with upper bounds greater than its lower bound. C, .. we Gy FIGURE 15.27 After computing the similarity sim(Q,7,), it shrinks the bounds of all cases based on their similarity with 7,. The next case to be picked for similarity computation is marked by the precision line. q. FIGURE 15.28 For threshold-based retrieval, termination happens when no case has bounds that co