 issue is to define a spam email. We may not be able to define the characteristics of spam email. In other words, the concept of spam email cannot be unambiguously defined. On the other hand, however, we may be able to give examples of spam emails. An ML system can be built to use these examples to train a program that functions as a spam filter. These examples will help us uncover a few characteristics of such emails. The simplest kind of spam emails are usually received from unknown email addresses. They may contain typical keywords such as lottery , free , etc. The occurrences of such words may give us some cues to the email being spam. How does one leverage this data for designing a spam filter program? Various ML approaches, proposed in literature, can be applied to design a spam filter. It may be possible to design some rules that define spam emails. Such rules can be used in spam filter to tag emails as potential spam. The performance of such ML systems would be evaluated, based on their ability to accurately achieve the intended task. ML is related to various fields such as Al, probability and statistics, linear algebra, information theory, control theory, philosophy, computational complexity theory, psychology and neurobiology. ML algorithms have proven to be of great practical value in a variety of application domains such as speech recognition, classification of astronomical structures, face recognition, computer vision, autonomous driving, health care and medical applications along with many other scientific applications. In general, ML techniques are useful in the following cases: Mining patterns from large databases as in Data Mining (for example to analyse outcomes of medical treatment from patient database, or to learn general rules for creditworthiness from financial database) Poorly understood domains where humans may not have enough explicit knowledge to develop effective algorithms (for example, human face recognition from images) Domains where p