ructured form, again using the knowledge contained in English Know. Use some special marker in the structure to indicate the part of the structure that should be returned as the answer. This marker will often correspond to the occurrence of a question word (like who or what ) in the sentence. The exact way in which this marking gets done depends on the form chosen for representing Structured Text. If a slot-and-filler structure, such as ours, is used, a special marker can be placed in one or more slots. If a logical system is used, however, markers wil] appear as variables in the logical formulas that represent the question. 2. Match this structured form against Structured Text. 3. Return as the answer those parts of the text that match the requested segment of the question. Examples QI: This question is answered straightforwardly with, a new coat . Q2: This one also is answered successfully with, a red coat . Q3: This one, though, cannot be answered, since there is no direct response to it in the text. Comments This approach is substantially more meaning (knowledge)-based than that of the first program and so is more effective. It can answer most questions to which replies are contained in the text, and it is much Jess brittle than the first program with respect to the exact forms of the text and the questions, As we expect, based on our experience with the pattern recognition and tic-tac-toe programs, the price we pay for this increased flexibility is time spent searching the various knowledge bases (i.e., English Know, Structured Text). One word of warning is appropriate here. The problem of producing a knowledge base for English that is powerful enough to handle a wide range of English inputs is very difficult. It is discussed at greater length in Chapter 15. In addition, it is now recognized that knowledge of English alone is not adequate in general to enable a program to build the kind of structured representation shown here. Additional knowledge about the wor