and heuristic knowledge are absolutely necessary. EXERCISES gemeeeggnenrageg ye t Ona ERC OR e SRE TENCTOTERE STODRFN IEZIS 0 SRECI MERTON CREEL 5 ROHR COS es MARTON TARAS BORE TION ESATA? MOI ORESRT HL LPRRTIDRSESESO MEET 1. Artificial intelligence systems employ a variety of formalisms for representing knowledge and reasoning with it. For each of the following sets of sentences, indicate the formalism that best facilitates the representation of the knowledge given in the statements in order to answer the question that is posed. Explain your choice briefly. Show how the statements would be encoded in the formalism you have selected. Then, show how the question could be answered. John likes fruit. Kumquats are fruit. People eat what they like. Does John eat kumquats? Assume that candy contains sugar unless you know specifically that it is dietetic. M&M s are candy. Diabetics should not eat sugar. Bill is a diabetic. Should Bill eat M&M s? Most people like candy. Most people who give parties like to serve food that. their guests like. Tom is giving a party. What might Tom like to serve? When you go to a movie theatre, you usually buy a ticket, hand the ticket to the ticket taker, and then go and find a seat. Sometimes you buy popcom before going to your seat When the movie is over, you leave the theatre. John went to the movies. Did John buy a ticket? 228 i . Artificial Intelligence 2. Give five examples of facts that are difficult to represent and manipulate in predicate logic. 3. Suppose you had a predicate logic-based system in which you had represented the information in Fig. 4.5. What additional knowledge Would you have to include in order to cause properties to be inherited downward in the hierarchy? For example, how could you answer the question of how tall a pitcher is? 4. Property inheritance is a very common form of default reasoning. Consider the semantic net Mammal isa isa birth-mode Cow Platypus Live (a) How could the information in this network be repre