y 155 A AEN IE SII ANN SEERA SE ROSE Unfortunately, this approach can become unwieldy as the set of exceptions to the general rule increases. For example, we could end up with a rule like: Adult-Male(x) : =Baseball-Player(x) /\ s Midget(x) Jockey(x) /\ height(x,5-10) height(x, 5-10) What we have done here is to clutter our knowledge about the general class of adult males with a list of all the known exceptions with respect to height. A clearer approach is to say something like, Adult males typically have a height of 5-10 unless they are abnormal in some way. We can then associate with other classes the information that they are abnormal in one or another way. So we could write, for example: Wx. Adult-Male(x) \ ~AB(x, aspect|) -> height(x,5-10) Wx : Baseball-Player(x) > AB(x, aspect 1) Wx : Midget(x) > AB(x, aspect 1) Wx : Jockey(x) AB(x, aspect 1) Then, if we add the single default rule: : 4 AB(x, y) 7 AB(x, y) we get the desired result. 7.2.2 Minimalist Reasoning So far, we have talked about general methods that provide ways of describing things that are generally true. In this section we describe methods for saying a very specific and highly useful class of things that are generally true. These methods are based on some variant of the idea of a minimal model. Recall from the beginning of this section that a model of a set of formulas is an interpretation that satisfies them. Although there are several distinct definitions of what constitutes a minimal model, for our purposes, we will define a model to be minimal if there are no other models in which fewer things are true. (As you can probably imagine, there are technical difficulties in making this precise, many of which involve the treatment of sentences with negation.) The idea behind using minimal models as a basis for nonmonotonic reasoning about the world is the following: There are many fewer true statements than false ones. If something is true and relevant it makes sense to assume that it has been entered 