thecardsare
dealtrandomlyanddeterminethemovesavailabletoeachplayer,butallthe dice arerolled
atthe beginning! Even though this analogy turns out tobe incorrect, itsuggests an effective
algorithm: consider all possible deals of the invisible cards; solve each one as if it were a
fullyobservablegame;andthenchoosethemovethathasthebestoutcomeaveragedoverall
thedeals. Supposethateachdealsoccurswithprobability P(s);thenthemovewewantis
(cid:12)
argmax P(s)MINIMAX(RESULT(s,a)). (5.1)
a
s
Here,werunexact MINIMAX ifcomputationally feasible;otherwise, werun H-MINIMAX.
Now, in most card games, the number of possible deals is rather large. For example,
inbridge play, each player sees just two(cid:20)of(cid:21)the fourhands; there aretwounseen hands of13
cards each, so the number of deals is 26 10,400,600. Solving even one deal is quite
13
difficult, so solving ten million is out of the question. Instead, we resort to a Monte Carlo
184 Chapter 5. Adversarial Search
approximation: instead of adding up all the deals, we take a random sample of N deals,
wheretheprobability ofdeal sappearing inthesampleisproportional to P(s):
(cid:12)N
1
argmax MINIMAX(RESULT(s
i
,a)). (5.2)
N
a
i 1
(Notice that P(s) does not appear explicitly in the summation, because the samples are al-
ready drawn according to P(s).) As N grows large, the sum over the random sample tends
totheexact value, but evenforfairly small N say, 100to1,000 the method gives agood
approximation. Itcanalso beapplied todeterministic gamessuchas Kriegspiel, givensome
reasonable estimateof P(s).
Forgameslikewhistandhearts,wherethereisnobidding orbetting phasebeforeplay
commences, each deal will be equally likely and so the values of P(s) are all equal. For
bridge, play ispreceded byabidding phase inwhicheachteam indicates howmanytricks it
expects towin. Since players bid based on the cards they hold, the other players learn more
abouttheprobability ofeachdeal. Takingthisintoaccount indeciding howtoplaythehand
istricky, forthereaso