-Level Processing 297 Another method of edge detection is model fitting. This is accomplished by locally fitting a parametric profile of edges to the image array. A model in the form of a mask is shifted over a region and compared to the corresponding gray levels. If the fit between the model and the gray-level pattern scores high enough, an edge with the given orientation is labeled appropriately. Model fitting methods usually require heavy computations. We omit the details here. Texture and Color As suggested earlier, texture and color are also used to identify regions and boundaries. Texture is a repeated pattern of elementary shapes occurring on an object's surface. Texture may appear to be regular and periodic, random, or partially periodic. Figure 14.11 illustrates some examples of textured surfaces. The structure in texture is usually too fine to be resolved, yet still course enough to cause noticeable variation in the gray levels. Even so, methods of analysis for texture have been developed. They are, commonly based on statistical analyses of small groups of pixels, the application of pattern matching, the use of Fourier transforms, or modeling with special functions known as fractals. These methods are beyond the scope of our goals in this chapter. The use of color to identify and interpret regions requires more than three Limes as much processing as gray-level processing. First, the image must be separated into its three primary colors with red, green, and blue filters (Figure 14. 12). The separate color images must then be processed by sampling the intensities and producing three arrays or a single array of tristimulus values. The arrays are then processed separately (in some cases jointly) to determine common color regions and corresponding boundaries. The processes used to find boundaries and regions, and to interpret color images is similar to that of gray-level systems. Although the additional computation required in color analysis can be significant,