w the brain works. They are characterized by having: e A large number of very simple neuronlike processing elements. A large number or weighted connections between the elements, The weights on the connections encode the knowledge of a network. e Highly parallel, distributed control. e An emphasis on learning internal representations automatically. Connectionist researchers conjecture that thinking about computation in terms of the brain metaphor rather than the digital computer metaphor will lead to insights into the nature of intelligent behavior. Computers are capable of amazing feats. They can effortlessly store vast quantities of information. Their circuits operate in nanoseconds. They can perform extensive arithmetic calculations without error. Humans cannot approach these capabilities. On the other hand, humans routinely perform simple tasks such as walking, talking, and commonsense reasoning. Current AI systems cannot do any of these things better than Connectionist Models 377 ACTRESSES TILT humans can. Why not? Perhaps the structure of the brain is somehow suited to these tasks and not suited to tasks such as high-speed arithinetic calculation. Working under constraints similar to those of the brain may make traditional computation more difficult, but it may lead to solutions to AI problems that would otherwise be overlooked. What constraints, then, does the brain offer us? First of all, individual neurons are extremely slow devices when compared to their counterparts in digital computers. Neurons operate in the millisecond range, an eternity to a VLSI designer. Yet, humans can perform extremely complex iasks, such as interpreting a visual scene or understanding a sentence, in just a tenth of a second. In other words, we do in about a hundred steps what current computers cannot do in 10 million steps. How can this be possible? Unlike a conventional computer, the brain contains a huge number of processing elements that act in parallel. This suggests that in o