mberships are found from the respective triangular regions. These memberships form inputs to a second layer that comprise the rules. Note that the connections are made as per the rules R1 through R8. The right hand sides of the rules specify the fuzzy outputs that correspond to the next layer. Connections at this level are also made in conformance with the rules. Finally the outputs of the penultimate layer are defuzzified by a defuzzifying function to give a crisp output. ne Temperature Fan motor speed Fig. 22.7 Neuro Fuzzy Room Cooler As can be seen from the figure the arcs connecting the neurons pertaining to the rule's left hand side. to those of its right hand side (neurons of the penultimate layer) are weighted. These weights may be initialized just as in neural networks, to values between [0,1]. These weights are the ones that change during the training phase of the neural network. Training is conducted by presenting both the input and the desired target output. The system's output is computed and the error between this and the desired output is propagated backwards (using the back propagation algorithm). This modifies the activation functions of the neurons, Over several epochs. the weights are altered to reveal the best values. In the process it may also happen that a particular arc may have a weight equal to O which essentially means the rule (neuron) from which it emanated need not be part of the fuzzy system. The learning mechanism thus aids in filtering unnecessary or redundant rutes that may have been included by the expert unknowingly. 22.10 POINTS TO NOTE The use of fuzzy logic may seem a bit unconventional. Especially since everything seems in place (a priori) and the system seems to be doing something computationally to achieve the desired effect. Such systems are thus most suited for areas where a mathematical model is not available or the problem is difficult to model or realize, Furthermore these systems have to be tuned and re-tuned by changing