apples in the bag, but this would be
amistake because thesetisan abstract mathematical concept thathas elements but does not
have weight. Instead, we need a new concept, which we will call a bunch. Forexample, if
BUNCH
theapplesare Apple ,Apple ,and Apple ,then
1 2 3
Bunch Of( Apple ,Apple ,Apple )
1 2 3
denotesthecompositeobjectwiththethreeapplesasparts(notelements). Wecanthenusethe
bunchasanormal,albeitunstructured,object. Noticethat Bunch Of( x ) x. Furthermore,
Bunch Of(Apples)isthecompositeobjectconsisting ofallapples not tobeconfusedwith
Apples,thecategory orsetofallapples.
Wecan define Bunch Of in terms of the Part Of relation. Obviously, each element of
sispartof Bunch Of(s): x x s Part Of(x,Bunch Of(s)).
Furthermore, Bunch Of(s) is the smallest object satisfying this condition. In other words,
Bunch Of(s)mustbepartofanyobjectthathasalltheelementsofsasparts: y x x s Part Of(x,y) Part Of(Bunch Of(s),y).
LOGICAL These axioms are an example of a general technique called logical minimization, which
MINIMIZATION
meansdefininganobjectasthesmallestonesatisfying certain conditions.
Section12.2. Categoriesand Objects 443
NATURAL KINDS
Some categories have strict definitions: an object is a triangle if and only if it is
a polygon with three sides. On the other hand, most categories in the real world
havenoclear-cutdefinition;thesearecallednaturalkindcategories. Forexample,
tomatoestendtobeadullscarlet; roughly spherical; withanindentation atthetop
where the stem was; about two to four inches in diameter; with a thin but tough
skin; and with flesh, seeds, and juice inside. There is, however, variation: some
tomatoes are yellow or orange, unripe tomatoes are green, some are smaller or
larger than average, and cherry tomatoes are uniformly small. Rather than having
acomplete definition of tomatoes, wehave aset offeatures that serves toidentify
objects that are clearly typical tomatoes, but might not be able to decide forother
objects. (Couldtherebeatomatothatisfuzzylikea