difficulties caused by continuous
variables.2 While Equation (13.2) has a definitional flavor, Equation (13.4) reveals that the
axioms really do constrain the degrees of belief an agent can have concerning logically re-
lated propositions. This is analogous to the fact that a logical agent cannot simultaneously
believe A, B, and (A B), because there is no possible world in which all three are true.
Withprobabilities, however,statementsrefernottotheworlddirectly, buttotheagent s own
stateofknowledge. Why,then,cananagentnotholdthefollowingsetofbeliefs(eventhough
theyviolate Kolmogorov s axioms)?
P(a) 0.4 P(a b) 0.0
(13.5)
P(b) 0.3 P(a b) 0.8.
This kind of question has been the subject of decades of intense debate between those who
advocate the use of probabilities as the only legitimate form for degrees of belief and those
whoadvocate alternative approaches.
One argument for the axioms of probability, first stated in 1931 by Bruno de Finetti
(andtranslatedinto Englishinde Finetti(1993)),isasfollows: Ifanagenthassomedegreeof
belief inaproposition a,then theagentshould beable tostate oddsatwhichitisindifferent
to a bet for or against a.3 Think of it as a game between two agents: Agent 1 states, my
degree of belief in event a is 0.4. Agent 2 is then free to choose whether to wager for or
against aatstakes thatareconsistent withthestated degreeofbelief. Thatis, Agent2could
choose toaccept Agent 1 sbet that awilloccur, offering 6against Agent 1 s 4. Or Agent
2 could accept Agent 1 s bet that a will occur, offering 4 against Agent 1 s 6. Then we
observe the outcome of a, and whoever is right collects the money. If an agent s degrees of
belief do not accurately reflect the world, then you would expect that it would tend to lose
moneyoverthelongruntoanopposing agentwhosebeliefsmoreaccurately reflectthestate
oftheworld.
But de Finetti proved something much stronger: If Agent 1 expresses a set of degrees
of belief that violate the axioms of probability theory then there is a co