nt for super-computers and knowledge-based systems. In their excellent hook on the Fifth Generation. Feigenbaum and Mc Corduck (1983) present convincing arguments for the importance that should be ascribed to such programs. They argue that the time is right for the exploitation of Al and that the leaders in this field will become the leaders in world trade. By forging ahead in research and the development of powerful knowledge-based systems. the Japanese are assuring themselves of a leading rote in the control and dissemination of packaged knowledge. .Feigenh!uin and Nk Corduck laud the Japanese for their boldness and farsightedness in moving ahead with this ambitious program. 2.3 KNOWLEDGE-BASED SYSTEMS One of the important lessons learned in Al during the 1960s was that general purpose problem solvers which used a limited number of laws or axioms were too weak to be effective in solving problems of any complexity. This realization eventually led to the design of what is now known as knowledge-based systems, systems that depend on a rich base of knowledge to perform difficult tasks. Edward Feigenbaum summarized this new thinking in a paper at the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI) in 1977. He emphasized the fact that the real power of an expert system comes froth the knowledge it possesses rather than the particular inference schemes and other formalisms it employs. This new view of Al systems marked the turning point in the development of more powerful problem solvers. It formed the basis for some of the new emerging expert systems being developed during the 1970s including MYCIN. an expert system developed to diagnose infectious blood diseases. Since this reali,aticin. much of the work done in Al has been related to socalled knowledge-based sstems. including work in vision. learning, general problem 'otving. and natural language understanding. This in turn has led to more emphasis being placed on research related to knowledge repres