 structure of sound argument. Thus statement like all three legged fishes have one eye in logic as true withewhanymreblems because ' legged fishes. When logic and reasoning is part of a complete knowledge system, a rule musty be s a positive example, or a negative example, or by both a positive and negative example (Muller, 185 says that Everything that is knowable is nameable , one can give only positive examples like ie can then use it to infer that a jar is nameable because it is knowable. If one wants to infer that from all the other four elements , because it has odour it does not make sense to use a rule like from other elements has odour because the only thing that satisfies the above case is earth. O1 ise a negative vyapti and say that whatever is not different from the other elements, has no odour add an instance like water, or light. The example of smoke and fire we have been looking at adi and negative instances. We can give a positive example, the culinary hearth. And also an instanc version wherever there is no fire, there is no smoke, as in a lake . ga characterizes the universal rule by identifying the two components as linga the symbol for the rea he symbol for the conclusion. He says that for the vyapti to hold all occurrences of the linga nied by the sadhya, also that the inga must not occur without the sadhya. His successor two centul irti, categorized the vyapti into two kinds. One, where the linga has the own nature of the sadhya. of the latter, for example a Siberian tiger is a kind of a tiger, and thus one can say that whenev tiger, X is a tiger. These kind of taxonomic relations are common in all sciences now. We sha ies in more detail later. The other kind of relation that holds is a causal connection between the linge as between smoke and fire. The Naiyayika philosophers again generalized the condition for a vyap s. X is absent from all those instances from which Y is . This says the X can only occur if Y occurs. herever there is no fire. 1