sit? Infact,whatmattersisnotthedistinction between real and artificial environments, butthecomplexityof therelationship amongthebehav-
ior of the agent, the percept sequence generated by the environment, and the performance
measure. Some real environments areactuallyquitesimple. Forexample,arobotdesigned
toinspectpartsastheycomebyonaconveyorbeltcanmakeuse ofanumberofsimplifying
assumptions: that the lighting is always just so, that the only thing onthe conveyor belt will
bepartsofakindthatitknowsabout,andthatonlytwoactions(acceptorreject)arepossible.
Incontrast, somesoftwareagents(orsoftwarerobotsor softbots)existinrich,unlim-
SOFTWAREAGENT
iteddomains. Imagineasoftbot Websiteoperatordesignedtoscan Internetnewssourcesand
SOFTBOT
show the interesting items to its users, while selling advertising space to generate revenue.
To do well, that operator will need some natural language processing abilities, it will need
to learn what each user and advertiser is interested in, and it will need to change its plans
dynamically for example, when the connection for one news source goes down or when a
new one comes online. The Internet is an environment whose complexity rivals that of the
physicalworldandwhoseinhabitants includemanyartificialandhumanagents.
2.3.2 Properties oftaskenvironments
The range of task environments that might arise in AI is obviously vast. We can, however,
identify a fairly small number of dimensions along which task environments can be catego-
rized. These dimensions determine, to a large extent, the appropriate agent design and the
applicability of each of the principal families of techniques foragent implementation. First,
42 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
Agent Type Performance Environment Actuators Sensors
Measure
Medical Healthypatient, Patient,hospital, Displayof Keyboardentry
diagnosissystem reducedcosts staff questions,tests, ofsymptoms,
diagnoses, findings,patient s
treatments, answers
referrals
Satelliteimage Correctimage Downlinkfrom Displayofs