values, a CSP is said to be k-consistent, if for any k variable there exists a value that is consistent with the (k 1) variables. We need a few more definitions to formalize this notion (Dechter, 2003). An instantiation or a compound label of a subset of variables V is the assignment of values to each variable from its domain. If the set of variables is V xy1, Xv, ..., Xyx then the instantiation is the tuple of ordered pairs ( xy1, ay1 , Xyo2, Ay2 , .--, Xvx, Aye ) where each pair consists a variable and a value or label assigned to it. We also write the instantiation as (xy, ay1, Xy2 ay2 , ..., XvK Ayx) or as a vector 4 a, Ay2s 1 AVA. An instantiation 4 satisfies a constraint S, R iff it is defined over the variables in S and the components of 4 corresponding to S are present in R. We also say that the instantiation is k-satisfiable. For example, the instantiation b, d for Q;, Qz satisfies Rj. An instantiation 4 over the set of variables V is consistent if it satisfies all the constraints in the CSP whose scopes are subsets of V. We say that the instantiation is kconsistent if it has k values. For example, the assignment a, b, c, e for Q1, Qo, Q3, Qu is consistent because it satisfies R12, R13, R14, Ros, Roa and R34. A solution of a CSP is a consistent assignment over all its variables. The CSP is said to express the set of solutions of the CSP. Two CSPs (X, D, C) and (X, D , C ) are said to be equivalent if they express the same set of solutions. This is of particular interest when D contains reduced domains arrived at by constraint propagation. Search on D' would be less expensive and yield the same solutions. 9.2.1 Node Consistency A CSP is said to be node consistent or 1-consistent if and only if every value in every domain satisfies the unary constraints on the corresponding variable. A unary constraint, by definition, selects a subset of a domain. For example, if the domain D, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and there is a constraint C, ( x , x 4 ) ina CSP then for that CSP th