ts, in the sense that a physical object is
a chunk of space time. For example, USA can be thought of as an event that began in,
say, 1776 as a union of 13 states and is still in progress today as a union of 50. We can
describe the changing properties of USA using state fluents, such as Population(USA). A
property ofthe US Athatchanges everyfouroreightyears, barring mishaps, isitspresident.
One might propose that President(USA) is a logical term that denotes a different object
at different times. Unfortunately, this is not possible, because a term denotes exactly one
objectinagivenmodelstructure. (Theterm President(USA,t)candenotedifferentobjects,
depending onthevalueoft,butourontology keeps timeindices separate from fluents.) The
450 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
only possibility is that President(USA) denotes a single object that consists of different
people atdifferent times. Itistheobject thatis George Washington from1789to1797, John
Adamsfrom1797to1801,andsoon,asin Figure12.3. Tosaythat George Washingtonwas
president throughout 1790,wecanwrite
T(Equals(President(USA),George Washington),AD1790).
We use the function symbol Equals rather than the standard logical predicate , because
we cannot have a predicate as an argument to T, and because the interpretation is not that
George Washington and President(USA)are logically identical in1790; logical identity is
notsomethingthatcanchangeovertime. Theidentityisbetweenthesubeventsofeachobject
thataredefinedbytheperiod1790.
12.4 MENTAL EVENTS AND MENTAL OBJECTS
The agents we have constructed so far have beliefs and can deduce new beliefs. Yet none
of them has any knowledge about beliefs or about deduction. Knowledge about one s own
knowledgeandreasoningprocessesisusefulforcontrollinginference. Forexample,suppose
Aliceasks whatisthesquare root of1764 and Bobreplies I don t know. If Alice insists think harder, Bob should realize that with some more thought, this question can in fact
be answered. On the other hand, if