osomes. A 15 108 B 10 c]5 A D |20 chi 7 0 atiness 216 Fig. 23.1 Roulette Wheel (c) Crossover: Crossover is the process of swapping portions of the two selected chromosomes. Most often swapping occurs at gene boundaries called crossing sites or chiasma. In the present case each of (d) Genetic Algorithms: Copying Nature s Approaches 461 the chromosomes has three genes, which means its length is 3. Thus the chromosome can have two crossing sites shown below by the numbered arrows bods {Genel, Gene2, Gene3} We now take two solutions randomly out of the mating pool and determine whether cross over should occur or not. Crossover need not occur in every generation. Generally, a crossover probability or rate p, that remains constant throughout, is used. In the current case we assume that crossover does take place to describe how it is effected. If it does not occur then the two selected solutions form two of the entities of the new generation provided they are not subjected to mutation, described later. Imagine we select two chromosomes {1, 0, 1} and {1, 1, 0} randomly for crossover. We then randomly choose either of two possible crossing sites 1 or 2. If the crossing site numbered 2 is chosen then the resultant chromosomes would be formed as shown below L (1,0, 1} a (1, 1,0} Let us assume that the two of the other solutions {1, 1, 0} and {0, 1, 0} are also crossed over (once again based on p,) this time at position 1 to obtain the solutions {0, 1,0} and {1, 1,0). Note that this does not (unfortunately) generate new solutions. Such things can happen in GAs but that s just like real life! Mutation: As in nature, mutation occurs very infrequently. Accordingly the mutation probability or rate p,,, is fixed at a very low value and chances are that it takes place once in thousands of generations. Mutation is realized by flipping the value of a randomly selected gene in a chromosome. Mutation in the present case, if p,, permits, can be effected by randomly selecting one of the th