8.22 The Representation of a columns 2 and 4. There is some global excitation, so in the absence Traveling Salesman Tour in of strong inhibition, individual units will prefer to be active. a Hopfield Network Notice that each unit represents some hypothesis about the position of a particular city in a short tour. To find that tour, we start out by giving our units random activation values. Once all the weights are set, the units update themselves asynchronously according to the rule described in Section 18.1.'? This updating continues until a stable state is reached. Stable states of the network correspond to short tours because conflicts between constraints are minimal. Hopfield and Tank [1985] have used these networks to corne up with quick, approximate solutions to traveling salesman problems (but see Wilson and Pawley [1988] for a critique of their results). Many other combinatorial problems, such as graph-coloring, can be cast as constraint satisfaction problems and solved with parallel relaxation networks. 18.3.4 Other Applications Other tasks successfully tackled by neural networks include leaming to play backgammon [Tesauro and Sejnowski, 1989], to classify sonar signals [Gorman and Sejnowski, 1988], to compress images [Cottrell et al., 1987], and to drive a vehicle along aroad [Pomerleau, 1989}. While there are other techniques for attacking all these problems, learning-based connectionist systems can often be built more quickly and with less expertise than their traditional counterparts. r Tratmmoowp !2 Note that these connection weights are hand-coded, not learned. 13 Actually, the units used by Hopfield and Tank [1985] lake on real activation values (determined by a sigmoid curve) not binary values. By changing the shape of the sigmoid during processing, the network achieves some of the same results as does simulated annealing. Connectionist Models 399 18.4 RECURRENT NETWORKS One clear deficiency of neural network models compared to symbolic models is the