ost likely hands that a partner, and opponents, can have and arrive at an estimate of the best contract. Finally, the success of bidding is not known after the auction is over. It is only reflected in the final score that the side gets after the play phase is over. For this reason, bidding is considered the hardest part of the game, and is usually a discriminating factor between novices and experts. The main tasks in bidding are the following: Interpreting the meaning of bids of other people and constructing some representation of their card holdings. representation can only be an approximate one. Using the information inferred about the holding of other players, either making bids conveying more information, or asking for more information, or deciding the contract to be played. Making interference bids designed to try and disrupt opponents communication. Note that one must be careful not to be saddled Note that this with a bid that has a high penalty for being unfulfilled during play. Most known bidding implementations use rule based approaches. A few sample rules are illustrated below. Rule: Feature rule Balanced-hand If no suit has less than two cards If no suit has more than four cards THEN The shape of the hand is balanced Rule: Bid rule open-1-N IF The shape of the hand is balanced The hand count is between 15 and 17 No one has bid so far It is the player s turn to bid THEN Make a 1 no trump bid Rule: Bid rule open-1-Major IF It is the player s turn to bid No one has bid so far The hand count is between 12 and 21 Number of cards in major (spades or hearts) is five or more Major is the longest suit THEN Make 1 spade or 1 heart (as the case may be) bid. Declarer Play During the play phase, there are three players involved. The declarer plays her cards as well as the dummy s cards. The two defenders play their own cards. Each of the three can see two sets of cards their own and the one in the dummy. The difference in nature of their tasks arises because the decla