gupwiththeideainthefirstplace.
19.3.1 Extracting general rules from examples
Thebasic idea behind EB Lisfirst toconstruct anexplanation ofthe observation using prior
knowledge, and then to establish adefinition of the class of cases forwhich thesame expla-
nation structure can be used. This definition provides the basis fora rule covering all of the
casesintheclass. The explanation canbealogicalproof, butmoregenerally itcanbeany
reasoning orproblem-solving process whose steps arewell defined. The keyis tobe able to
identify thenecessary conditions forthosesamestepstoapplytoanothercase.
We will use for our reasoning system the simple backward-chaining theorem prover
described in Chapter9. Theprooftreefor Derivative(X2,X) 2X istoolargetouseasan
example, so we will use a simpler problem to illustrate the generalization method. Suppose
ourproblem istosimplify 1 (0 X). Theknowledgebaseincludes thefollowingrules:
Rewrite(u,v) Simplify(v,w) Simplify(u,w).
Primitive(u) Simplify(u,u).
Arithmetic Unknown(u) Primitive(u).
Number(u) Primitive(u).
Rewrite(1 u,u).
Rewrite(0 u,u).
.
.
.
The proof that the answer is X is shown in the top half of Figure 19.7. The EBL method
actually constructs twoprooftreessimultaneously. Thesecondprooftreeusesa variabilized
goal inwhich the constants from the original goal are replaced by variables. Asthe original
proof proceeds, the variabilized proof proceeds in step, using exactly the same rule applica-
tions. This could cause some of the variables to become instantiated. Forexample, in order
tousetherule Rewrite(1 u,u),thevariablexinthesubgoal Rewrite(x (y z),v)must
(cid:2)
bebound to1. Similarly, y mustbebound to0inthesubgoal Rewrite(y z,v )inorderto
usetherule Rewrite(0 u,u). Oncewehavethe generalized proof tree, wetake theleaves
782 Chapter 19. Knowledgein Learning
Simplify(1 (0 X),w)
Rewrite(1 (0 X),v) Simplify(0 X,w)
Yes, v 0 X Rewrite(0 X,v') Simplify(X,w)
Yes, v' X w X Primitive(X)
Arithmetic Unknown(X)
Simplify(x (y z),w) Yes, Rewrite(x