e in the space 51, which is at a lower level than space SA, which contains Dogs. This is important, since d does not stand for a particular dog; it is merely a variable that can be instantiated with a value that represents a dog. Weak Slot-and-Filler Structures 193 PIB o D TE EEN SONNETS INTER ET 9.1.5 The Evolution into Frames The idea of a semantic net started out simply as a way to represent labeled connections.among entities. But, as we have just seen, as we expand the range of problem-solving tasks that the representation must support, the representation itself necessarily begins to become more complex. In particular. it becomes useful to assign mote structure to nodes as well as to links. Although there is no clear distinction between a semantic net and a frame system, the more structure the system has, the more likely it is to be termed a frame system. In the next section we continue our discussion of structured slot-and-filler representations by describing some of the most important capabilities that frame systems offer. 9.2 FRAMES A frame is a collection of attributes (usually called slots) and associated values (and possibly constraints on values) that describe some entity in the world. Sometimes a frame describes an entity in some absolute sense; sometimes it represents the entity from a particular point of view (as it did in the vision system proposal [Minsky, 1975] in which the term frame was first introduced). A single frame taken alone is rarely useful. Instead, we build frame systems out of collections of frames that are connected to each other by virtue of the fact that tbe value of an attribute of one frame may be another frame. In the rest of this section, we expand on this simple definition and explore ways that frame systems can be used to encode knowledge and support reasoning 9.2.1. Frames as Sets and Instances The Set theory provides a good basis for understanding frame systems. Although not all frame systems are defined this way, we do so he