rrevolutejoints. Thischainofcoordinatetransformation
isknownaskinematics.
KINEMATICS
Theinverseproblem ofcalculating theconfiguration ofarobotwhoseeffectorlocation
INVERSE isspecifiedinworkspacecoordinatesisknownasinversekinematics. Calculatingtheinverse
KINEMATICS
kinematicsishard,especiallyforrobotswithmany DO Fs. Inparticular,thesolutionisseldom
unique. Figure 25.14(a) shows one of twopossible configurations that put the gripper in the
samelocation. (Theotherconfiguration wouldhastheelbowbelowtheshoulder.)
988 Chapter 25. Robotics
conf-2
conf-1
conf-3
conf-3
conf-1
conf-2
ee
ss
(a) (b)
Figure25.15 Threerobotconfigurations,showninworkspaceandconfigurationspace.
In general, this two-link robot arm has between zero and two inverse kinematic solu-
tions for any set of workspace coordinates. Most industrial robots have sufficient degrees
of freedom to find infinitely many solutions to motion problems. To see how this is possi-
ble, simply imagine that we added a third revolute joint to our example robot, one whose
rotational axis is parallel to the ones of the existing joints. In such a case, we can keep the
location(butnottheorientation!) ofthegripperfixedandstillfreelyrotateitsinternaljoints,
formostconfigurationsoftherobot. Withafewmorejoints(howmany?) wecanachievethe
same effect while keeping the orientation of the gripper constant as well. We have already
seen an example of this in the experiment of placing your hand on the desk and moving
your elbow. The kinematic constraint of your hand position is insufficient to determine the
configuration of your elbow. In other words, the inverse kinematics of your shoulder arm
assemblypossesses aninfinitenumberofsolutions.
The second problem with configuration space representations arises from the obsta-
cles that may exist in the robot s workspace. Ourexample in Figure 25.14(a) shows several
suchobstacles, including afree-hanging obstacle thatprotrudes intothecenteroftherobot s
workspace. In workspace, such obstacles take