nical evidence, MYCIN uses that evidence if it already has access to it. Otherwise, it asks the user to provide the information. In order that MYCIN s requests for information will appear coherent to the user, the actual goals that MYCIN sets up are often more general than they need be to satisfy the preconditions of an individual rule. For example, if a precondition specifies that the identity of an organism is X, MYCIN will set up the goal infer identity. This approach also means that if another rule mentions the organism s identity, no further work will be required, since the identity will be known. We can now retum to the trace of TEIRESIAS-MYCIN s behavior shown in Fig. 20.1. The first question that the user asks is a WHY question, which is assumed to mean Why do you need o know that? Particularly for clinical tests that are either expensive or dangerous, it is important for the doctor to be convinced that the information is really needed before ordering the test. (Requests for sensitive or confidential information present similar difficulties.) Because MYCIN is reasoning backward, the question can easily be answered by examining the goal tree. Doing so provides two kinds of information: 426 Artificial Intelligence Se een ed What higher-level question might the system be able to answer if it had the requested piece of information? (In this case, it could help determine the category of ORGANISMI.) What other information does the system already have that makes it think that the requested piece of knowledge would heip? (In this case, facts [2.1] to [2.4].) is the patient's illness with ORGANISM-1 a hospital-acquired infection? ** WHY [i-e., WHY is it important to determine whether or not the infection with OAGANISM-1 was acquired while the patient was hospitalized?] [2.0] This will aid in determining the category of ORGANISM-1. It has already been established that [2.1] the gram stain of ORGANISM-1 is gramneg, and {2.2] the morphology of ORGANISM-~1 is rod, and [2