 block for the same information. 11.6. Referring to Problem 11.4, describe how a hashing method could be applied to search for the indicated records. 11.7. Draw a conceptual indexing tree structure using the same keys as those given in Problem 11.4, but with the addition of a generalized node named farm-animals. 11.8. Using the same label links as those used in HAM, develop propositional trees for the following sentences. The birds were singing in the park. John and Mary went dancing at the prom. Do not drink the water. 11.9. For the previous problem, add the sentence "There are lots of birds and they are small and yellow." 11.10. Develop an E-MOP for a general episode to fill up a car with gasoline using the elements Actor, Participant, Objects, Actions, and Goals. 11.11. Show how the E-MOP of Problem 11.10 would be indexed and accessed for the two events of filling the car at a self-service and at a full-service location. 11.12. Are the events of Problem II. II good candidates for specialized E-MOPs Explain your answer. 11.13. Give an example of a hashing function that does not distribute key values uniformly over the key space. 11.14. Draw a small hypertext network that you might want to browse where the general network subject of artificial intelligence is used. Make up your own subtopics and show all linkages which you feel are useful, including link directions between subtopics. 11.15. Show how the E-MOP of Figure 11.7 would be generalized when peace was one of the topics discussed at every meeting. 11.16. Modify the E-MOP of Figure 11.7 to accommodate a new meeting between Vance and King Hussain of Jordan. The topic of their meeting is Palestinian refugees. PART Perception, Communication, and Expert Systems A en Natural Language Processing Perception and communication are essential components of intelligent behavior. They provide the ability toeffectively interact with our environment. Humans perceive and communicate through their five basic senses of sight, 