strategy is foreach player to refuse unless the other player has ever played
PERPETUAL testify. This strategy could be called perpetual punishment. Suppose both players have
PUNISHMENT
adoptedthisstrategy,andthisismutualknowledge. Thenaslongasneitherplayerhasplayed
testify,thenatanypointintimetheexpected futuretotalpayoffforeachplayeris
(cid:12) 0.99t ( 1) 100.
t 0
Aplayerwhodeviatesfromthestrategyandchooses testify willgainascoreof0ratherthan 1 on the very next move, but from then on both players will play testify and the player s
totalexpected futurepayoffbecomes
(cid:12) 0 0.99t ( 5) 495.
t 1
Therefore, at every step, there is no incentive to deviate from (refuse,refuse). Perpetual
punishment is the mutually assured destruction strategy of the prisoner s dilemma: once
either player decides to testify, it ensures that both players suffer a great deal. But it works
asadeterrentonlyiftheotherplayerbelievesyouhaveadoptedthisstrategy oratleastthat
youmighthaveadopted it.
Otherstrategies aremoreforgiving. Themostfamous, calledtit-for-tat, callsforstart-
TIT-FOR-TAT
ingwithrefuse andthenechoing theotherplayer s previous moveonallsubsequent moves.
So Alicewouldrefuse aslong as Bobrefuses andwouldtestify themoveafter Bobtestified,
but would go back to refusing if Bob did. Although very simple, this strategy has proven to
behighlyrobustandeffectiveagainstawidevarietyofstrategies.
We can also get different solutions by changing the agents, rather than changing the
rules of engagement. Suppose the agents are finite-state machines with n states and they
are playing a game with m n total steps. The agents are thus incapable of representing
the number of remaining steps, and must treat it as an unknown. Therefore, they cannot do
the induction, and are free to arrive at the more favorable (refuse, refuse) equilibrium. In
thiscase,ignorance isbliss orrather, havingyouropponent believethatyouareignorantis
bliss. Yoursuccess in these repeated games depends onthe other player s perc