s + and the argument is an object of type a Nuinber. The primitive operation Samelype Of Objcct tests Whether the two object arguments are of the same type (instances of the same class). The variable self is a temporary variable of an instance of the class it belongs to. Integer. If the two objects are of the same type, the primitive Integer Addition in the iffrue block of code is executed and the sum returned. Otherwise, a search for an appropriate method is made by checking the superclass of this class (the class Number) . The up-arrow signifies the quantity to be returned by the method. A. typical OOS may have as many as a few hundred predefined primitives and basic methods combined. We will see examples of some typical methods in the next section. Classes and Hierarchies A class is a general object that defines a set of individual (instance) objects which share common characteristics. For example, the class of rabbits contains many individual rabbit objects, each with four legs, long ears, whiskers, and short bushy, tails. The class of natural numbers contains many instance objects such as 43,91,2, . . . . All objects are instances of some class and classes are subclasses of some higher 154 Object-Oriented Representations Chap. 8 class, except for a most general root class. The root class for an OOS is the class named Object. Classes can often be divided into subclasses or merged into superelasses. The class of fruit can be divided into citrus and noncitrus, both of which can be further divided. Fruit is part of the superclass ofplant-grown foods which in turn is part of the class of all foods. Classes permit the formation di hierarchies of objects which can be depicted as a tree or taxonomic structure as illustrated in Figure 8.3. Objects belonging to the same class have the same variables and the same methods. They also respond to the same set of messages called the protocol of the class. Each class in a hierarchy inherits the variables and methods of all of i