number-of-divisors-of intus ; A metaphor to the effect that primes are the building blocks of aff numbers analogies : Maximaily divisible numbers are converse extremes of number-of-divisors-of Factor a nonsimple group into simple groups interest : Conjectures tying primes to times, to divisors of, to related operations worth ; 800 Fig. 17.16 An AM Concept: Prime Number If fis a function from A to B and J is ordered, then consider the elements of A that are mapped into extremal elements of 2. Create a new concept representing this subset of A. ff some (but not most) examples of some concept X are also examples of another concept Y, create a new concept representing the intersection of X and Y. * If very few examples of a concept X are found, then add to the agenda the task of finding a generalization of X. Fig. 17.17 Some AM Heuristics In one run, AM discovered the concept of prime numbers. How did it do that? Having stumbled onto the natural numbers, AM explored operations such as addition, multiplication, and their inverses. It created the concept of divisibility and noticed that some numbers had very few divisors. AM has a built-in heuristic that tells it to explore extreme cases. It attempted to list all numbers with zero divisors (finding none), one divisor (finding one: 1), and two divisors. AM was instructed to call the last concept primes. Before pursuing this concept, AM went on to list numbers with three divisors, such as 49. AM tried to relate this property with other properties of 49, such as its being odd and a perfect square. AM generated other odd numbers and other perfect squares to test its hypotheses. A side effect of determining the equivalence of perfect squares with numbers with three divisors was to boost the interestingness rating of the divisor concept. This led; AM to investigate ways in which a number could be broken down into factors. AM then noticed that there was only one way to break a number down into prime factors (known as the Unique 