etween the species. Each individual member strives for survival and propagation, and competes with other individuals for the means to do so. The fastest foxes catch the rabbits; the slower ones have to starve. The faster rabbits escape and live to eat and procreate. The early bird gets the worm. Life forms embody strategies that are more complex than just speed or timing. Foxes and rabbits may be clever too. Fruits and flowers rely on taste and looks for their seeds to be dispersed. Many predators and prey adopt disguises to hide from the other. In general, the strategies are complex and multi-faceted. Some simple strategies like that of a cockroach have survived for long periods, while other more complex ones like that of the cheetah seem endangered in this age of human dominance. The offspring of a single individual would be like the individual in its strategy for survival. Nature has struck upon a novel way to produce improved designs. Procreation in nature is mostly through bisexual reproduction. Every species has male and female members, who mate and produce offspring. Selection happens because individuals that are alive and can find mates will get to reproduce, and others will not. When mating and reproduction does happen, the offspring inherits features from both parents. This process has the elements of a random move built in. Some children will inherit good features from both parents, and will be better than both, and will probably have better chances of survival and reproduction. In this way, fitter members of a species will survive and the population will have more and more fitter members. The design of an individual is expressed in the genetic make-up of the individual, known as its genotype. A chromosome is a large macromolecule into which DNA is normally packaged in a cell and which contains many genes. The genes carry instructions encoded in a physical form in the DNA of an individual. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a nucleic acid that contains the ge