4 istheoperator applied tothesemantics ofthephrase 3 and
Section23.3. Augmented Grammarsand Semantic Interpretation 901
Exp(x) Exp(x )Operator(op)Exp(x ) x Apply(op,x ,x ) 1 2 1 2
Exp(x) (Exp(x) )
Exp(x) Number(x)
Number(x) Digit(x)
Number(x) Number(x ) Digit(x ) x 10 x x 1 2 1 2
Digit(x) x 0 x 9 Operator(x) x x , , , Figure23.8 Agrammarforarithmeticexpressions,augmentedwithsemantics.Eachvari-
ablexirepresentsthesemanticsofaconstituent.Notetheuseofthe test notationtodefine
logicalpredicatesthatmustbesatisfied,butthatarenotconstituents.
Exp(5)
Exp(2)
Exp(2)
Exp(3) Exp(4) Exp(2)
Number(3) Number(4) Number(2)
Digit(3) Operator( ) Digit(4) Operator( ) Digit(2)
3 ( 4 2 )
Figure23.9 Parsetreewithsemanticinterpretationsforthestring 3 (4 2) .
COMPOSITIONAL the phrase 4. The rules obey the principle of compositional semantics the semantics of
SEMANTICS
aphraseisafunctionofthesemanticsofthesubphrases. Figure23.9showstheparsetreefor
3 (4 2) according to this grammar. The root of the parse tree is Exp(5), an expression
whosesemanticinterpretation is5.
Nowlet smoveontothesemantics of English, oratleast of E . Westart bydetermin-
0
ingwhatsemanticrepresentations wewanttoassociatewithwhatphrases. Weusethesimple
examplesentence Johnloves Mary. The NP John shouldhaveasitssemanticinterpreta-
tion the logical term John, and the sentence as a whole should have as its interpretation the
logical sentence Loves(John,Mary). That much seems clear. The complicated part is the
VP loves Mary. The semantic interpretation of this phrase is neither a logical term nor a
complete logical sentence. Intuitively, loves Mary is adescription that might ormight not
902 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
apply to aparticular person. (In this case, it applies to John.) Thismeans that loves Mary is a predicate that, when combined with a term that represents a person (the person doing
theloving), yields acomplete logical sentence. Using the -notation (see page 294), wecan
represent loves Mary asth