is true. Models are assignments of true or false to
every proposition symbol. Returning to our wumpus-world example, the relevant proposi-
tion symbols are B , B , P , P , P , P , and P . With seven symbols, there are
1,1 2,1 1,1 1,2 2,1 2,2 3,1
27 128 possible models; in three of these, KB is true (Figure 7.9). In those three models, P istrue,hencethereisnopitin 1,2 . Ontheotherhand, P istrueintwoofthethree
1,2 2,2
modelsandfalseinone,sowecannotyettellwhetherthereisapitin 2,2 .
Figure7.9reproduces inamoreprecise form thereasoning illustrated in Figure7.5. A
generalalgorithmfordecidingentailmentinpropositionallogicisshownin Figure7.10. Like
the BACKTRACKING-SEARCH algorithm on page 215, TT-ENTAILS? performs a recursive
enumeration of afinite space of assignments to symbols. Thealgorithm is soundbecause it
implements directly thedefinition ofentailment, and completebecause itworksforany KB
and andalwaysterminates there areonlyfinitelymanymodelsto examine.
Of course, finitely many is not always the same as few. If KB and contain n
symbols in all, then there are 2n models. Thus, the time complexity of the algorithm is
O(2n). (Thespacecomplexityisonly O(n)becausetheenumeration isdepth-first.) Laterin
this chapter weshow algorithms that are much more efficient in many cases. Unfortunately,
propositional entailment isco-NP-complete (i.e.,probably noeasierthan NP-complete see
Appendix A), so every known inference algorithm for propositional logic has a worst-case
complexity thatisexponential inthesizeoftheinput.
248 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
B 1,1 B 2,1 P 1,1 P 1,2 P 2,1 P 2,2 P 3,1 R 1 R 2 R 3 R 4 R 5 KB
false false false false false false false true true true true false false
false false false false false false true true true false true false false
. . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . .
false true false false false false false true true false true true false
false true false false false false true true true true true true true
false