as Hubs and Authorities or
HITS, is another influential link-analysis algorithm (see Figure 22.1). HITS differs from
Page Rankinseveralways. First,itisaquery-dependent measure: itratespages withrespect
to a query. That means that it must be computed anew for each query a computational
burden that most search engines have elected not totake on. Given aquery, HITS firstfinds
a set of pages that are relevant to the query. It does that by intersecting hit lists of query
words, andthen adding pages inthelink neighborhood ofthese pages pages thatlink toor
arelinkedfromoneofthepagesintheoriginalrelevantset.
Each page in this set is considered an authority on the query to the degree that other
AUTHORITY
pages in the relevant set point to it. A page is considered a hub to the degree that it points
HUB
to other authoritative pages in the relevant set. Just as with Page Rank, we don t want to
merely count the number of links; we want to give more value to the high-quality hubs and
authorities. Thus, as with Page Rank, weiterate a process that updates the authority score of
a page to be the sum of the hub scores of the pages that point to it, and the hub score to be
thesum oftheauthority scores ofthe pages itpoints to. Ifwe then normalize thescores and
repeat k times,theprocesswillconverge.
Both Page Rank and HITS played important roles in developing our understanding of
Webinformationretrieval. Thesealgorithmsandtheirextensionsareusedinrankingbillions
ofqueries dailyassearch engines steadily develop betterwaysofextracting yetfinersignals
ofsearchrelevance.
22.3.6 Questionanswering
Information retrieval is the task of finding documents that are relevant to a query, where the
QUESTION querymaybeaquestion, orjustatopicareaorconcept. Questionansweringisasomewhat
ANSWERING
different task, in which the query really is a question, and the answer is not a ranked list
of documents but rather a short response a sentence, or even just a phrase. There have
been question-answering NLP (nat