 may be feasible to formulate heuristic rules to guide search, so that the chances of backtracking are minimized. The challenge, as a theme that we have been developing in this book, is to combine knowledge with search in a manner to solve problems as quickly and reliably as possible. 7.7 Discussion In this chapter, we have looked at algorithms for planning in the simplest possible domains, known as the STRIPS domain. In this domain, the following assumptions hold. The Actions are Instantaneous. Thus, we have only to worry about sequencing them, and there is really no notion of time. When actions are assigned durations then the total duration of executing the plan, the makespan, becomes a quality metric. For example, a recipe that uses a microwave for cooking is likely to produce your dinner faster. Further, when we talk of parallel actions then things become more complex, because of different durations. For example, while rice is being cooked on the stove, one could chop the vegetables, and knead the dough in parallel. The Domain is Static. This means that the planning agent is the only agency of change. Thus while planning is being done, and while the plan is being executed, the world does not change. The Actions are Deterministic. This means that the effects of actions when executed, are as intended. In such a world, the agent does not need to monitor the plan. In the real world, actions are not always deterministic, as anyone, who for example, attempted to walk on slippery ice would have discovered. The Agent has Complete Information about the World. This means that the agent knows the state of the world completely. Often this is not the case in the real world. An agent planning a bid in an auction for example has no idea what the other agents may be planning to bid. Or an agent searching for a treasure does not know where the treasure is buried. The Objective is Only on the Final State. Classical planning states the objectives as conditions on final state. In p