Suppose now that new evidence (m3) indicates that organization C was indeed responsible to a degree of 0.8. This requires that values for m30in4 be computed, where ,n4 m1 + m2. Compute a new intersection tableau for the new evidence, that is compute mi (C) and m3 (U) versus M4 (A), rn4 (CA), tn4(A,B,D), and m4(U). 6.9 In what ways do endorsement justifications differ from probabilistic justifications? 6.10 In what ways do endorsement justifications differ from fuzzy logic justifications? A / Structured Knowledge: Graphs, Frames, and Related Structures The representations considered up to this point focused primarily on expressivtness, validity, consistency, inference methods, and related topics. Little consideration was given to the way in which the knowledge was structured and how it might be viewed by designers, or to the type of data structures that should be used internally. Neither was much consideration gteen to effective methods of organizing the knowledge structures in memory. In this, and the following two chapters, we address such problems. In this chapter, we first look at associative networks as a form of representation and see examples of their use and flexibility.. Next, we look at frames, a generalized structure recently introduced as a method of grouping and linking related chunks. of knowledge. Finally, we consider structures closely related to frames known as scripts and memory organization packets. We compare them with the frame structures and see how they are used in reasoning systems. 7.1 INTRODUCTION The representations studied in Chapter 4 are suitable for the expression of fairly simple facts. They can be written in clausal form as independent units and placed in a KB in any order. Inference is straightforward with a procedure such as chaining 126 Sec. 7.2 Associative Networks 127 PROFESSION(bob,protessor) FACULTY(bob,engioearing) MARRIED(bob,sandy) FATHER-OF4bob,sue.joe) DRIVES(bob.buick) OWNS(bob.house) - MARRIED(x.y) V MARRIED(y,x) Figure 