arge amounts of knowledge. And. as knowledge bases increase in size and complexity, the access problem becomes more difficult. The time to search.- test, select, and retrieve a minimal amount of requisite knowledge from a large, body of knowledge cn be very time consuming 211 212 Knowledge. Organization and Management Chap. 11 it the knowledge is poorly organized. Such problems can easily become intractible or at best intolerable. In this chapter, we investigate various approacheslo the effecti'e organization of knowledge within memors.. We recognize that while the reprcsentitom of kno Aledue is still an Important taclor, we are more concerned here with the broader pn)hlein, that of organization and maintenance for efficient storage and recall as wl I as for its manipulation. 111 INTRODUCTION Flic advantages of using structured kniwledge representation schemes (frames, aooidative networks, or object-oriented structures) over unstructured ones (rules Or K clauses) should he understood and appreciated at this point. Structured schemes group or link small related chunks of knowledge together as a unit. This simplifies the processing operations. since knowledge required For a given task is usually contained within a limited semantic region which can be accessed as a unit or traced through a few linkages. But, as suggested earlier, representation is not the only factor which affects efficient manipulation. A program must first locate and retrieve the appropriate knowledge in an efficient manner whenever it is needed. One of the most direct methods for finding the appropiiate knowledge is exhaustive search or the enumeration of all items in memory. This is also one of the least efficient access methods. More efficient retrieval is accomplished through some form of indexing or grouping. We consider some of these processes in the next section where we review traditional access and retrieval methods used in memory organizations This is followed by a description of less commo