rithms for doing these computations: a message-passing method [Pearl], 1988], a clique triangulation method {Lauritzen and Spiegelhalter, 1988], and a variety of stochastic algorithms. The idea behind these methods is to take advantage of the fact that nodes have limited domains of influence. Thus, although in principle the task of updating probabilities consistently throughout the network is intractable, in practice it may not be. In the clique triangulation method, for example, explicit arcs are introduced between pairs of nodes that share a commondescendent. For the case shown in Fig. 8.2(b), a link would be introduced between Sprinkler and Rain. This explicit link supports assessing the impact of the observation Sprinkler on the hypothesis Rain. This is important since wet grass could be evidence of either of them, but wet grass plus one of its causes is not evidence for the competing cause since an alternative explanation for the observed phenomenon already exists. The message-passing approach is based on the observation that to compute the probability of a node A given what is known about other nodes in the network, it is necessary to know three things: z-the total support arriving at A from its parent nodes (which represent its causes). A-the total support arriving at A from its children (which represent its symptoms). The entry in the fixed conditional probability matrix that relates A to its causes. Statistical Reasoning 181 Several methods for propagating # and A messages and updating the probabilities at the nodes have been developed. The structure of the network determines what approach can be used. For example, in singly connected networks (those in which there is only a single path between every pair of nodes), a simpler algorithm can be used than in the case of multiply connected ones. For details, see Pearl [1988]. Finally, there are stochastic, or randomized algorithms for updating belief networks. One such algorithm (Chavez, 1989] transforms an arb