Language is meant for communicating about the world. By studying language, we can come to understand more about the world. We can test our theories about the world by how well they support our attempt to understand language. And, if we can succeed at building a computational model of language, we will have a powerful tool for communicating about the world. In this chapter, we look at how we can exploit knowledge about the world, in combination with linguistic facts, to build computational natural language systems. Throughout this discussion, it is going to be important to keep in mind that the difficulties we will encounter do not exist out of perversity on the part of some diabolical designer. Instead, what we see as difficulties when we try to analyze language are just the flip sides of the very properties that make language so powerful. Figure 15.1 shows some examples of this. As we pursue our discussion of language processing, it is important to keep the good sides in mind since it is because of them that language is significant enough a phenomenon to be worth all the trouble. By far the largest part of human linguistic communication occurs as speech. Written language is a fairly recent invention and still plays a less central role than speech in most activities. But processing written language (assuming it is written in unambiguous characters) is easier, in some ways, than processing speech. For example, to build a program that understands spoken language, we need all the facilities of a written language understand as well as enough additional knowledge to handle all the noise and ambiguities of the audio signal.! Thus it is useful to divide the entire language-processing problem into two tasks: e Processing written text, using lexical, syntactic, and semantic knowledge of the language as well as the required real world information e Processing spoken language, using all the information needed above plus additional knowledge about phonology as well as enough ad