BLIOGRAPHICAL AND HISTORICAL NOTES
Themethodologicalstatusofartificialintelligenceisinvestigatedin The Sciencesofthe Artifi-
cial,by Herb Simon(1981),whichdiscussesresearchareasconcernedwithcomplexartifacts.
It explains how AI can be viewed as both science and mathematics. Cohen (1995) gives an
overviewofexperimental methodology within AI.
The Turing Test(Turing, 1950) isdiscussed by Shieber(1994), whoseverely criticizes
the usefulness of its instantiation in the Loebner Prize competition, and by Ford and Hayes
(1995), whoarguethatthetestitselfisnothelpfulfor AI.Bringsjord (2008) givesadvicefor
a Turing Test judge. Shieber (2004) and Epstein et al. (2008) collect a number of essays on
the Turing Test. Artificial Intelligence: The Very Idea, by John Haugeland (1985), gives a
Exercises 31
readable account of the philosophical and practical problems of AI. Significant early papers
in AIareanthologizedinthecollectionsby Webberand Nilsson(1981)andby Luger(1995).
The Encyclopedia of AI (Shapiro, 1992) contains survey articles on almost every topic in
AI, as does Wikipedia. These articles usually provide a good entry point into the research
literature on each topic. An insightful and comprehensive history of AI is given by Nils
Nillson(2009), oneoftheearlypioneers ofthefield.
The most recent work appears in the proceedings of the major AI conferences: the bi-
ennial International Joint Conference on AI(IJCAI),theannual European Conference on AI
(ECAI),andthe National Conferenceon AI,moreoftenknownas AAAI,afteritssponsoring
organization. The major journals for general AI are Artificial Intelligence, Computational
Intelligence, the IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, IEEE In-
telligent Systems,andtheelectronic Journalof Artificial Intelligence Research. Therearealso
many conferences and journals devoted to specific areas, which we cover in the appropriate
chapters. The main professional societies for AI are the American Association for Artificial
