 cities from the two parents alternately. This is known as the Alternating Edges Crossover (AEX). A variation of this is to select a sequence of edges from one parent before choosing some from the other. This is known as the Subtour Selection Crossover (SSX). One can observe that this is similar to the PMX crossover with path representation. A check for cycle formation has still to be kept in all these approaches though. In summary, the TSP problem is one of those problems in which defining crossover functions is not a straightforward process. The intuition behind GAs is that the offspring have a chance of inheriting and combining good components from the parents. In TSP, the good components are tour segments. But the shortest tour segments may not add up to a valid tour. If this happened, a greedy tour construction would have worked. Box 4.1: A Note on Innovation and Creativity Over a period of 3.5 billion years, nature has produced a vast plethora of designs for life through a process of recombination and selection. Starting presumably with a few simple forms, life has diversified into a number of species, with a large number of individuals within the species. Life forms display a bewildering diversity, occupying all nooks and corners of the earth. The number of living creatures living can safely be said to be unknown. Even the number of species is not known, and is variously said to be anywhere between 3 to 100 million. The world around us is a result of billions of generations of recombination and selection over a population of billions. In contrast, human endeavour is relatively short termed. Our problem solving efforts are focused on speed and minimal use of resources. There has been considerable evidence that the completely unconstrained methods employed by nature are too slow to solve our problems (Grand, 1998; Goldberg, 2002). If we are to devise GAs that work, we have to put in more structure to guide the search. (Goldberg, 2002) defines competent GAs as f