 and their properties. Formal concepts are mathematical constructs and not formal, logical entities (Wille, 2005). A concept is a set of objects which share some properties. Both the sets, objects and properties, have to be maximal in the sense described below. A formal concept captures information both in the form of an intension and in the form of an extension. As an extension, it specifies all the objects that have a set of properties (specified by the intension) in common. Any object that does not belong to the concept does not satisfy some property in the intension. As an intension, the concept specifies all the properties that hold for all the objects (specified by the extension) in the concept. Any property that is excluded has some object in the extension that does not satisfy it. Only those objects with their corresponding properties that satisfy the above define a concept. A set of objects O is said to be closed if O (O )' obj(att(O)) written as O O". Likewise, a set of properties P is said to be closed if P P" att(obj(P)). A formal concept can also be defined as the pair (O , P ). A simple method to find all the concepts in a context would be to look at all subsets of G and check whether they are closed, and checking whether their corresponding property sets are closed too. But this procedure involves looking at all subsets of G, or the power set of G, which is exponential in size. The set of all concepts of a context K(G, M, R) is denoted by 9(G, M, R). Given a formal context K(G, M, R) and the induced set of formal concepts Bem), the concepts can be structured into a lattice by using the following relation. The formal concept (Osup, Psup) is a subconcept of a concept (Osuper Psuper) iff Osup S Osuper or equivalently P super SP. sub: (Osup P. sub) ( Osuper P. super) Osub Osuper or (Osup: P. sub) ( Osupers P. super) Osub Osuper The orderings induced by the subset relations for sets of objects is the opposite of the ordering induced by the subset relation 