s and the relations between them. Events can be either the ACTS of an actor or a change of state. The latter are called state change events. The relations between the different constituents are captured as dependencies. Some dependencies are two way dependencies, and they form conceptualizations, which correspond to sentences in logic, and can stand by themselves. The following dependencies can occur. In keeping with the notation used by the Yale group we depict conceptual structures graphically using arrows to capture dependencies. While implementing them one will convert them into formulas of FOL. 1. Actors can act. For example, the event Harry ate the pear could be represented by (INGEST ACTOR (HARRY) OBJECT (PEAR REF (DEF))). At an abstract level there is a two way dependency between an Actors and an ACT, which we can represent as PP ACT PP ACT 2. Picture producers can be described by picture aiders. Picture aiders are connected to PPs by three line arrows. This could be used for example to KBRbraus TRE'statement Jaidev is tall . PP PP PA 3. Objective case. ACTs can have objects. For example, Saveri lent the book to Aditi . ACT 2 pp 4. Directive case. ACTs can be associated with a sense of direction. For example Nikhil went towards the restaurant D Loc ACT LOC 5. Recipient case. ACTs can have recipients. For example in sentence Saveri lent the book to Aditi , Saveri is the lender and Aditi the borrower. R PP ACT PP 6. The objective case can take a conceptualization as the object. For example this might occur when the ACT is a communication act and one is telling a story. For example, Mahathi told her father that Praveen had plucked the flower . Observe that we have now moved higher from strict FOL and one of the arguments to the relation is a conceptualization itself. This is similar to what one would represent such statements with logics of knowledge and belief. act 2 f N The instrumental case. ACTS may have instrumental ACTS. For example, He sent her the messa