eindependent oftheparticularvaluesoftheattributes
MUTUALLYUTILITY in Y. A set of attributes is mutually utility independent (MUI) if each of its subsets is
INDEPENDENT
utility-independent of the remaining attributes. Again, it seems reasonable to propose that
theairportattributes are MUI.
MUI implies that the agent s behavior can be described using a multiplicative utility
MULTIPLICATIVE function(Keeney,1974). Thegeneralformofamultiplicativeutilityfunctionisbestseenby
UTILITYFUNCTION
looking atthecaseforthreeattributes. Forconciseness, weuse U tomean U (x ):
i i i
U k U k U k U k k U U k k U U k k U U
1 1 2 2 3 3 1 2 1 2 2 3 2 3 3 1 3 1 k k k U U U .
1 2 3 1 2 3
Althoughthisdoesnotlookverysimple,itcontainsjustthreesingle-attributeutilityfunctions
andthreeconstants. Ingeneral,ann-attributeproblemexhibiting MU Icanbemodeledusing
n single-attribute utilities and n constants. Each of the single-attribute utility functions can
be developed independently of the other attributes, and this combination will be guaranteed
to generate the correct overall preferences. Additional assumptions are required to obtain a
purelyadditiveutilityfunction.
16.5 DECISION NETWORKS
In this section, welook at a general mechanism formaking rational decisions. The notation
is often called an influence diagram (Howard and Matheson, 1984), but we will use the
INFLUENCEDIAGRAM
more descriptive term decision network. Decision networks combine Bayesian networks
DECISIONNETWORK
withadditional nodetypesforactionsandutilities. Weuseairportsitingasanexample.
16.5.1 Representing a decisionproblem witha decisionnetwork
Initsmostgeneral form,adecisionnetworkrepresents information abouttheagent scurrent
state, its possible actions, the state that will result from the agent s action, and the utility of
that state. It therefore provides a substrate forimplementing utility-based agents of the type
first introduced in Section 2.4.5. Figure 16.6 shows a decision network forthe airport siting
problem. Itillustrat