f the partial plan are the actions Ag and A. as in plan space planning described earlier. The head step is the last step at the end of a chain of contiguity links starting from Ao, and the tail step is the first step in the sequence of contiguity links ending in A... In addition, one can introduce a notion of state in two places that can be computed easily. One, called the head state, is the set of predicates obtained by progressing the start state till after the head step, and the other called the tail state is the set of predicates obtained by regressing the goal set across the contiguity links from A. to the tail step. The partial plan representation is illustrated below in Figure 7.31. Figure 7.31 The ordering links in a partial plan. Ag A; and Ap are linked by contiguity links, as are Ag and A... The arrows show the precedence links. Action Ag is the head step, and Ag the tail step. The steps Ag to Ag are called the middle steps. The figure does not show causal links. Thus, while the planner operates on a representation that does not include states, one can implicitly associate two states with the partial plan, and thus include the state space planning into the unified framework. Further, if one can include high level actions into the partial plan then we can have a unified framework in which all the different planning approaches can be incorporated. The framework described here has been adapted from (Kambhampati, 1997). In the unified framework, we start with a partial plan like the plan in PSP containing the two actions (Ag, A..). We can also think of this as a high level network of NOAH, made up of a single task that is to achieve the goal predicates. Thus, plans are like networks in NOAH, in which the high level tasks are made up of the open conditions in PSP. Refinement of this network can be done in any one of the following ways, Expanding a node like in NOAH or in HTN planning. A node is replaced by a network of lower level actions. Introducing new actio