subject, predicate, object where the subject is a resource that is being described, marked by the RDF word about , the property is a resource from some namespace, and the value is either a resource or a value from some valuespace. A resource is anything that can be uniquely identified. In order to avoid the problem of ambiguity of terms, RDF uses the notion of a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) that uniquely identifies a resource. The URI s are used to create references in a standard form, usually in XML though other forms are possible , which can be parsed by other programs or browsers. RDF employs a notion of a namespace to identify standard names for its elements. A namespace is used to provide uniquely named elements, and may be specified by xmins (for xml namespace) with a value that is a URI. The following are examples of namespaces, xmins:xhtml http: www.w3.org 1999 xhtml xmins:rdf http: www.w3.org 1999 02 22-rdf-syntax-ns xmins:rdfs http: Awww.w3.org 2000 01 rdf-schema The entry on the left hand side following xmins: is the short form that can be used instead of the longer right hand side. For example the second entry above states, for the benefit of any program accessing that resource, that the enclosing document is an RDF document, and that the rdfRDF tag resides in this namespace. One can also create one s own namespaces, as for example, xmins:composition http: www.muzicsite.zzz composition The use of URIs is instrumental in extending the domain of the statements to the entire World Wide Web, and the process can be called webizing (Berners-Lee, 1998). An application on one machine can talk about the properties of a resource described on some other machine, thus creating a semantic web of resources. It must be kept in mind that the goal of the semantic web is to share information, and in particular to enable programs to share information in a meaningful manner across the web. It is a representation scheme, and does not address the issues of reasoning in i