 at a particular level of granudarity. Since different granularities are systematically related to each other, we can reason in a simplified model with relative assurance that our actions will be implementable in the real world. The idea of granularity can be used to build a common sense model of space [Kautz, 1985]. The basic idea is to define relations over spaces. The first relation is INSIDE(.x, y, g), where x and y are spaces occupied by particular objects and g is the level of granularity at which those objects are viewed. For example, water is INSIDE a glass if the v2 three-dimensional space taken up by the water is completely contained within the three-dimensional space taken up by the glass. If we view a highway as a three-dimensional slab of concrete, then V4 % acar driving along the highway would be considered ADJACENT to the highway, but not INSIDE of it. However, if some granularity Ms g views the highway as a one-dimensional curve, then the relation INSIDE(Car, Highway, g) holds for as long as the car stays on the road, This is because the car and its position on the road are Fig. 19.4 Two Ribbons (y, and yz) and indistinguishable at that level of granularity. Two Curves (x; and x2) We can now define a number of useful properties for curves, lines, surfaces, planes and volumes. For example, here is the definition of a terminal point p of a curve c: TERMINAL(, c) = INSIDEG, c) A Wa), y : INSIDE(c;, c).\ INSIDE@, ) A INSIDE , ,) A INSIBE(p, ;) INSIDE( ), 3).\V INSIDE(cy, ,) In other words, p is a TERMENAL of if, whenever two subcurves of both include p, one must be a subcurve of the other. We can similarly. define curve segments, adjeining curves, loops, and forks. Another useful class to define is that of a RIBBON: RIBBON(object, side,, side.) A ribbon is. essentially a curve viewed at a coarser level of granularity, resulting in a two-dimensional ribbonlike shape. Our world contains many objects that are usefully viewed as ribbons, e.g., rivers and bri