h as the fact that a structure is more likely to be appropriate if a desired feature is missing (perhaps because it is hidden from view) than if an inappropriate feature is present. For example, a person with one leg is more plausible than a person with a tail. Refer to specific stored links between structures to suggest new directions in which to explore. An example of this sort of linking among a set of frames is shown in the similarity network shown in Fig. 4.11.5 Ifthe knowledge structures are stored in an isa hierarchy, traverse upward in it until a structure is found that is sufficiently general that it does net conflict with the evidence, Either use this structure if it is specific enough to provide the required knowledge or consider creating a new structure just below the matching one. 5 This example is taken from Minsky [1975]. 96 Artificial Intelligence BENCH no back, too wide CHAIR too big, no ale o N too high, no back TABLE STOOL drawers SIDEBOARD DESK y O no knee room Fig. 4.11 A Simitarity Net 4.4 THE FRAME PROBLEM So far in this chapter, we have seen several methods for representing knowledge that would allow us to form complex state descriptions for a search program. Another issue concems how to represent efficiently sequences of problem states that arise from a search process. For complex ill-structured problemis, this can be a serious matter. Consider the world of a household robot. There are many objects and relationships in the world, and a state description must somehow include facts like on(Plant{2, Table34}, under(Table34, Window13)}, and in(Table34, Room 15). One strategy is to store each state description as a list of such facts. But what happens during the problem-solving process if each of those descriptions is very long? Most of the facts will not change from one state to another, yet each fact will be represented once at every node, and we will quickly run out of memory. Furthermore, we will spend the majority of our time creating these 