that we need to answer, given our observations about the intractability of pure Bayesian reasoning, is, What compromises does the MYCIN technique make and what risks are associated with those compromises? In the rest of this section we answer all these questions. Let s start first with a simple answer to the first question (to which we return with a more detailed answer later). A certainty factor (CF [h, e]) is defined in terms of two components: MBijh, e\|--a measure (between 0 and 1) of belief in hypothesis / given the evidence e. MB measures the extent to which the evidence supports the hypothesis. It is zero if the evidence fails to support the hypothesis, MD{h,e] a measure (between 0 and 1) of disbelief in hypothesis # given the evidence e. MD measures the extent to which the evidence supports the negation of the hypothesis. It is zero if the evidence supports the hypothesis. From these two measures, we can define the certainty factor as CF[h, e] = MB[h, e] - MD[A, e] Since any particular piece of evidence either supports or denies a hypothesis (but not botfi), and since each MYCIN rule corresponds to one piece of evidence (although it may be a compound piece of evidence), a single number suffices for each rule to define both the 4/B and MD and thus the CF The CF s of MYCIN s rules are provided by the experts who write the rules. They reflect the experts assessments of the strength of the evidence in @ support of the hypothesis. As MYCIN reasons, however, these CF s need to @Oa ) be combined to reflect the operation of multiple pieces of evidence and multiple tules applied to a problem. Figure 8.1 illustrates three combination scenarios that we need to consider. In Fig. 8.1(a), several rules all provide evidence that (a) (b) () relates to a single hypothesis. In Fig. 8.1(b), we need to consider our belief in a collection of several propositions taken together. In Fig. 8.1(c), the output of one rule provides the input to another. What formulas should be used to 