on tothetrueposteriordistributions.
The scenario described so far involved n known objects generating n observations at
each time step. Real application of data association are typically much more complicated.
Often,thereported observations include falsealarms(alsoknownasclutter),whicharenot
FALSEALARM
causedbyrealobjects. Detectionfailurescanoccur,meaningthatnoobservationisreported
CLUTTER
forarealobject. Finally,newobjectsarriveandoldonesdisappear. Thesephenomena,which
DETECTIONFAILURE
createevenmorepossible worldstoworryabout, areillustrated in Figure15.19(d).
Figure15.20showstwoimagesfromwidelyseparatedcamerasona Californiafreeway.
Inthis application, weareinterested intwogoals: estimating thetimeittakes, undercurrent
traffic conditions, to go from one place to another in the freeway system; and measuring
demand, i.e., how many vehicles travel between any two points in the system at particular
times of the day and on particular days of the week. Both goals require solving the data
association problem over a wide area with many cameras and tens of thousands of vehicles
per hour. With visual surveillance, false alarms are caused by moving shadows, articulated
vehicles,reflectionsinpuddles,etc.;detectionfailuresarecausedbyocclusion,fog,darkness,
and lack of visual contrast; and vehicles are constantly entering and leaving the freeway
system. Furthermore, the appearance of any given vehicle can change dramatically between
cameras depending on lighting conditions and vehicle pose in the image, and the transition
modelchangesastrafficjamscomeandgo. Despitetheseproblems,moderndataassociation
algorithms havebeensuccessful inestimating trafficparameters inreal-world settings.
Section15.7. Summary 603
Data association is an essential foundation for keeping track of a complex world, be-
causewithoutitthereisnowaytocombinemultipleobservations ofanygivenobject. When
objects in the world interact with each other in complex activities, understanding the world
requirescombining