 logical inputs. There have been long-drawn discussions, especially on fuzzy logic and statistical language processing, for which I sincerely thank him. The GA program described for skill allocation is adapted from an AI project assignment carried out by my ex-student Dipti Gagneja, currently pursuing her doctoral degree in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics at the University of Southern California. She has, at my behest, spent a considerable amount of time at the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, to see that the related figures and graphs portray the significance of the problem. I thank her too for this. I also owe my gratitude to a number of my students who have contributed in some way or the other in the making of this edition. Preface to the Third Edition xv AAR CSTE . Had my late mother been with me for a little longer, this book would have been published way back in 2006. A retired professor in English, she had promised to edit and review this edition. Hers, as. also my father s spirits, have yet finally coaxed me into finishing this book. I thank my sisters for having encouraged and supported me during bouts of uncertainty. My wife, Priya, and son, Jayprakash, have and continue to be my driving forces and thus figure in some logical form in this book. While the former has always found time to crack what I have written from the point of view of a third party, the latter has been the source of my Al-based ideas! Thanking them would thus never be enough. I also thank my in-laws for all the assistance they provided in the making of this book. SHIVASHANKAR B Nair A note of acknowledgement is due to the following reviewers who have contributed to the shaping of the book by providing their valuable suggestions. RC Joshi Kamlesh Dutta R P Arora JP Singh D R Desai Kishore Bhoyar LMR J Lobo S Fatima S V Gangashetty Kamalini Martin Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, Roorkee Department of Computer Scie