habit. Every time a termite meets a heap, it energetically Starts building earth pellets on top of it. The effect of this activity will soon be the formation of a vertical column. The activity stops when the column has reached a certain species-specific height. Third, if the column has no immediate neighbours, the termites completely stop bothering about it. But if in an adequate distance there are one or more other columns, a third habit is released. The termites climb the columns and start building in a sloping direction towards the neighbouring column. In this way, the columns become connected with arches. The amazing fact is that through a seemingly haphazard sequence of events, a nest is actually produced which cannot but elicit the feeling in the observer, that there must have been some kind of intelligence behind it. The last statement resonates with Richard Dawkins who says that nature is The Blind Watchmaker who has fashioned the world. Looking at life from the perspective of a semiosphere, one can even think of the living forms achieving persistence by passing information about themselves in their genes. The notion is best described in another quote from the author (Hoffmeyer, 1994a) To grasp the fundamentally semiotic character of animate nature, let us begin by considering the key process in life s peculiar way of persistence, heredity. Heredity is a phenomenon which is now rather well understood. And yet its real Significance is rarely properly explained. The significance is this: Since living systems are mortal, their survival has to be secured through semiotic rather than physical means. Heredity is semiotic survival, i.e. survival through a message contained in the genome of a tiny template cell, the fertilized egg in sexually reproducing species. ... In addition to this vertical semiotic system, i.e. genetic communication down through the generations, all organisms also partake in a horizontal semiotic system, i.e. communication throughout the ecolo