, that the statements we now call beliefs are not the same as known factual knowledge of the previous chapter. They may, in fact be erroneous. In another view, we may treat the agent as having a belief set that is determined by possible worlds which are accessible to the agent. In what follows, we will adopt this latter view. But before describing the modal language of our agent, we should explain further the notion of possible worlds. Possible Worlds In different knowledge domains it is often productive to consider po1ble situations or events as alternatives to actual ones. This type of reasoning is especially useful in fields where an alternative course of action can lead to a significant improvement or to a catastrophic outcome. It is a common form of reasoning in areas like law. economics, politics, and military planning to name a few. Indeed, we frequently engage our imaginations to simulate possible situations which predict outcomes based on different scenarios. Our language has even grown to accommodate hypothetical concepts with statements like "if this were possible," or "suppose we have the following situation." On occasion, we may also wish to think of possible worlds as corresponding to different distributed knowledge bases. Next, we wish to establish a relationship between an agent A and A's possible worlds. For this, we make use of a binary accessibility relation R. R is used to define relative possibilities between worlds for agent A . Let W {w 0, w.. ... denote a set of possible worlds where. w0 refers to the actual world. Let the relation R(A : w1,w) be defined on W such1hat5or an w,w1 E W, w, is accessible, from w, for agent A whenever R is satisfied. TIM meajis that a pioiiosition Pis true in w, if and only if P is true in all worlds actessible from w. Since R is a relation it can be characterized with relational properties such, as reflexivity, transitivity, symmetry, and equivalence. Thus for any w,,w.w'E W, the following properties are defined.