 gives a brief treatment of modal and temporal l gics which extend the expressive rower of classical logics to p mit repre.sentatir jus and reasoning about necessary and possible situations, temporal, and other related situations. Section 5.5 concludes the chapter with a ri presentation 0'(a relatively new method for dealing with vague and imprecise information, nansi 21y fuzzy logic and language computation. 5.2 TRUTI'1 MAINTENANCE SYSTEMS Truth maintenance systems (also known as belief revision and revision maintenance systems') are companion components to inference ..ystcms. The main job of the TMS i', to maintain consistency of the knowledge being used by the problem solver and r at to perform any inference functions. As such, it frees the problem solver frcn' any concerns of consistency and allows it to concentrate on the problem solution Sec. 5.2 Truth Maintenance Systems 83 aspects. The TMS also gives the inference component the latitude to perform nonmonotonic inferences. When new discoveries are made, this more recent information can displace previous conclusions that are no longer valid. In this way, the set of beliefs available to the problem solver will continue to be current and consistent. Figure 5.1 illustrates the role played by the TMS as part of the problem solver. The inference engine (IE) solves domain problems based on its current belief set, while the TMS maintains the currently active belief set. The updating process is incremental. After each inference, information is exchanged ltween the two components. The IE tells the TMS what deductions it has made. The TMS, in turn, asks questions about current beliefs and reasons for failures. It maintains a consistent set of beliefs for the IE to work with even if new knowledge is added and removed. For example, suppose the knowledge base (KB) contained only the propositions P, P -. Q, and modus ponens. From this, the IE would rightfully conclude Q and add this conclusion to the KB. Later, if it was le