ea 1) (side block x tangle 490 surface curved top block x surface flat make class block x type cylinder) ) Rule 3: (p wand-rale block name x ) base block x shape le area 1 (side black x angle surface curved colour black) top block x surface point) make class block x type wand )) Rule 4: (p come-sule block name x ) base block x shape cizcle area 1) (side block x angle 90 surface curved) top block x surface spherical 4 (Make class bleck x type dcme )) We construct the Rete net for the rules above. Observe that there is no unique Rete net corresponding to a set of rules. This is because one could choose any order of tests while constructing ajpha nodes and any order of combining in beta networks. The objective will be to construct a network where maximum attribute value tests are shared. The following example net (Figure 6.22) is one possible network. The network also stores the WMEs described below. . (base block A shape square area 20) (base block B shape circle area 20) (base block C shape circle area 1) . (side block C Aangle 85 surface curved colour black) (side block A angle 45 surface plane colour green) (top block A surface point) . (top block C surface point) (top block D surface point) . (side block B angle 90 surface curved) 10. (top block B surface flat) 11. (block name A) 12. (block name B) 13. (block name D) The numbers on the left are recency numbers, stating the order in which these WMEs are created. They are used to identify the WMEs in the Rete net. Observe that some tokens have been combined in beta nodes. The variable and the value for each such join event is also shown. Finally, one can see that in his example, there are two rules in the Conflict Set. CHNBARWNA 6.7 Discussion Problem decomposition involves breaking up a problem into smaller parts and working them. In backward or goal-directed reasoning, we naturally break up the goal into subgoals and tackle each separately. This leads to the And Or search for finding the decompositions that make u