nslation f
anddistortion d. Buttofindthebestf anddwecan t justenumerate sentences; withmaybe
100 French phrases for each English phrase in the corpus, there are 1005 different 5-phrase
translations, and5!reorderings foreachofthose. Wewillhavetosearchforagoodsolution.
A local beam search (see page 125) with a heuristic that estimates probability has proven
effectiveatfindinganearly-most-probable translation.
Allthat remains is to learn the phrasal and distortion probabilities. Wesketch the pro-
cedure;seethenotesattheendofthechapterfordetails.
1. Findparalleltexts: First,gatheraparallelbilingual corpus. Forexample,a Hansard9
HANSARD
is a record of parliamentary debate. Canada, Hong Kong, and other countries pro-
duce bilingual Hansards, the European Union publishes its official documents in 11
languages, and the United Nations publishes multilingual documents. Bilingual text is
also available online; some Web sites publish parallel content with parallel UR Ls, for
9 Namedafter William Hansard,whofirstpublishedthe Britishparliamentarydebatesin1811.
912 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
example, en forthe Englishpageand fr forthecorresponding Frenchpage. The
leadingstatistical translation systemstrainonhundreds ofmillionsofwordsofparallel
textandbillions ofwordsofmonolingual text.
2. Segmentintosentences: Theunitoftranslation isasentence,sowewillhavetobreak
the corpus into sentences. Periods are strong indicators of the end of a sentence, but
consider Dr. J. R. Smith of Rodeo Dr. paid 29.99 on 9.9.09. ; only the final period
ends a sentence. One way to decide if a period ends a sentence is to train a model
that takes as features the surrounding words and their parts of speech. This approach
achievesabout98 accuracy.
3. Alignsentences: Foreachsentence inthe Englishversion,determine whatsentence(s)
it corresponds to in the French version. Usually, the next sentence of English corre-
sponds tothe nextsentence of French ina1:1 match, but sometimes there isvaria