 word. After each move, the player gets a score which is the sum of the scores of the words formed by the player in that move. This score may be augmented when the tiles are placed on specially marked squares, known as hotspots, on the board. The marked square may double or triple of either the tile points or the entire word score. In addition, if a player uses up all the seven tiles on her rack, she gets a bonus of fifty points. This play is also known as a bingo. The game ends when there are no tiles in the bag, and either one player has finished her tiles, or no player can make a move. At the end of the game, each player s score is reduced by the sum of the points of their tiles left in the rack. In addition, if one player has finished all tiles, she gets the points of the tiles remaining on the other players rack. The winner of the game is the player who scores the most points. Finesse(P, . y Easy Finesse (P, S) ance inesse (P, S) StandardFinesse (P, S) StandardFinesse(P, S) Three - West Play a9 FIGURE 8.39 The portion of a task network for Tignum 2 adapted from (Ghallab et al., 2004) for a finesse tactic in bridge. The strategy has the structure of an And-Or tree, where the And arcs point to the four cards played in that trick, and the Or arcs to the different opponent responses. The thick dotted arrows depict the sequence of plays. Observe the different notation. The opponent moves are represented in oval nodes, as opposed to states in which the opponent is to move. Tournament Scrabble is played between two players, and we restrict our attention to the two player version. In the initial stages, the game is an incomplete information game because a player does not know what letters the opponent has in her rack, and, therefore, cannot predict the moves of the opponent. Further, since one cannot predict what new tiles one will draw from the bag, even your own moves at the third ply cannot be generated. Hence, the traditional methods based on the Minimax algorithm 