of S could make the agent less able to decide. The paradox is resolved by noting
1
thatintheabsenceofexactcostinformation, thedecisioniseasiertomakebutismorelikely
tobewrong.)
Theexactrelationship betweentheattributedistributions neededtoestablishstochastic
dominanceisbestseenbyexaminingthecumulativedistributions,shownin Figure16.5(b).
(Seealso Appendix A.) Thecumulative distribution measures theprobability thatthecostis
less than or equal to any given amount that is, it integrates the original distribution. If the
cumulative distribution for S is always to the right of the cumulative distribution for S ,
1 2
624 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
then,stochastically speaking, S ischeaperthan S . Formally,iftwoactions A and A lead
1 2 1 2
toprobability distributions p (x)andp (x)onattribute X,then A stochastically dominates
1 2 1
A on X if
2
(cid:26)x (cid:26)x x p (x (cid:2) ) dx (cid:2) p (x (cid:2) )dx (cid:2) .
1 2 Therelevanceofthisdefinitiontotheselectionofoptimaldecisionscomesfromthefollowing
property: if A stochasticallydominates A ,thenforanymonotonicallynondecreasingutility
1 2
function U(x), the expected utility of A is at least as high as the expected utility of A .
1 2
Hence,ifanactionisstochastically dominated byanotheraction onallattributes, thenitcan
bediscarded.
The stochastic dominance condition might seem rather technical and perhaps not so
easy to evaluate without extensive probability calculations. In fact, it can be decided very
easilyinmanycases. Suppose,forexample,thattheconstructiontransportation costdepends
on the distance to the supplier. The cost itself is uncertain, but the greater the distance, the
greater the cost. If S is closer than S , then S will dominate S on cost. Although we
1 2 1 2
will not present them here, there exist algorithms for propagating this kind of qualitative
QUALITATIVE
information among uncertain variables in qualitative probabilistic networks, enabling a
PROBABILISTIC
NETWORKS
systemtomakerationaldecisionsbased