omplexity, adaptation may involve tinkering only a part of a solution, and may thus be less complex. A formal analysis of this was given by Au, Munoz-Avila and Nau in their paper on case based planning (Au et al., 2002). Another reason why other knowledge based methods may not be suitable for solving the original problem is the difficulty of knowledge acquisition faced by rule based developers. An application to design medical drug composition illustrates this point. Working with AstraZeneca on drug design, Susan Craw says Although rules can be applied to suggest formulations for new drugs, it is difficult to acquire effective problem solving rules initially, and equally difficult to maintain these rules as different formulation practices evolve and more difficult drugs require to be formulated (Craw, 2001). Instead, the project adopts a case based approach, storing the details of the drug and excipients, together with the formulation that was successfully applied, into a case base (Craw et al., 1998). When a tablet for a new drug needs to be designed, a similar case is retrieved and its formulation reused. Where needed, rules are used for adaptation, for example, a harder drug may need a softer filler (Craw, 2001). Let us look at the example of path finding using case based reasoning. We could build a system that can find a path the first time using heuristic search, and store it in a case base for future use (see for example (Raman and Khemani, 1998)). When a new problem arises then the system may retrieve a known path, or a set of paths, from its memory, based on the start and the goal coordinates. To solve the new problem, it may only need to connect its start node and the goal nodes to near points on the retrieved path, as shown in Figure 15.34. These two new subproblems are likely to be much smaller in complexity. A similar kind of reasoning may happen when using public transport. If one had to travel to a village in Himachal Pradesh in India, one might first 