GY
did not evolve to solve word problems with probabilities and prizes stated as decimal num-
bers. Let us grant, for the sake of argument, that the brain has built-in neural mechanism
forcomputingwithprobabilities andutilities, orsomethingfunctionally equivalent; ifso,the
requiredinputswouldbeobtainedthroughaccumulatedexperienceofoutcomesandrewards
ratherthanthroughlinguisticpresentationsofnumerical values. Itisfarfromobviousthatwe
candirectlyaccessthebrain sbuilt-inneuralmechanisms bypresentingdecisionproblemsin
linguistic numerical form. The very fact that different wordings of the same decision prob-
lem elicit different choices suggests that the decision problem itself is not getting through.
Spurred by this observation, psychologists have tried presenting problems in uncertain rea-
soning and decision making in evolutionarily appropriate forms; for example, instead of
saying 90 survival rate, the experimenter might show 100 stick-figure animations of the
operation, wherethepatient diesin10ofthemandsurvives in90. (Boredom isacomplicat-
ing factor in these experiments!) With decision problems posed in this way, people seem to
bemuchclosertorationalbehaviorthanpreviously suspected.
622 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
16.4 MULTIATTRIBUTE UTILITY FUNCTIONS
Decision making in the field of public policy involves high stakes, in both money and lives.
Forexample, indeciding whatlevelsofharmfulemissions to allow fromapowerplant, pol-
icymakersmustweighthepreventionofdeathanddisability againstthebenefitofthepower
and the economic burden of mitigating the emissions. Siting a new airport requires consid-
eration of the disruption caused by construction; the cost of land; the distance from centers
ofpopulation; the noise offlight operations; safety issues arising from local topography and
weatherconditions; and so on. Problems like these, inwhich outcomes are characterized by
MULTIATTRIBUTE twoormoreattributes, arehandledby multiattributeutilitytheory.
UTILITYTHEORY
We 