arch algorithm. Another algorithm, due to Hansson and Mayer [1989], uses Bayesian inference. Dean and Boddy [1988] define a related notion, the a7ytime algorithm. An anytime algorithm is one that can be interrupted and queried at any point during its computation. The longer the algorithm runs, the more accurate its answer is. ' It is possible to prune the search tree using a technique called alpha pruning, a single-agent analogue of alpha-beta pruning. Alpha pruning is a branch-and-bound technique of the type we encountered in Chapter 2. 434 Artificial Intelligence ELT? LEHRER HE SOONER AETHER Now we turn to more specific techniques aimed at various perceptual and motor problems. Later, we investigate architectures for integrating perception, action, and cognition. It should be noted that this is only a brief survey of a very large and active field of research. Those interested in investigating these issues more deeply should consult robotics texts such as Brady [1982] and Craig [1985]. 21.2 PERCEPTION We perceive our environment through many channels: sight, sound, touch, smell, taste. Many animals possess these same perceptual capabilities, and others are able to monitor entirely different channels. Robots, too, can process visual and auditory information, and they can also be equipped with more exotic sensors, such as laser rangefinders, speedometers, and radar. Two extremely important sensory channels for humans are vision and spoken language. It is through these two faculties that we gather almost all of the knowledge that drives our problem-solving behaviors. 21.2.1 Vision Accurate machine vision opens up a new realm of computer applications. These applications include mobile robot navigation, complex manufacturing tasks, analysis of satellite images, and medical image processing. In this section, we investigate how we can transform raw camera images into useful information about the world. A video camera provides a computer with an image represented as a two-