 on Figure 17.25. Observe that we have extended the life of the component indefinitely in the figure. The probability density function must also satisfy two conditions. P()20 and Jo P(dt 1 That is, the area under the curve must be equal to 1. 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 Figure 17.26 With random variables taking continuous valves, the probability distribution is replaced by a probability density function. The solid curve above is a plot of this density function, while the dashed curve is the cumulative probability. The cumulative probability of the component failing within time K is given by the area under curve, J KP()dt. Observe that in the figure above the cumulative probability, depicted by the dashed curve, tends to 1, as the time tends to infinity. In general, the following can be said about probability density functions. They must be positive valued functions over the entire sample space and the integral (or area) of the curve must be 1. To determine the probability that the event will occur, during an interval m, n is obtained by computing the area under the curve over the interval J "P(t)dt m . One can meaningfully talk of computing the probability over an interval, however small. The curves drawn in the Figure 17.26 are hand drawn for illustration. In practice, one would like to define the curve using a set of parameters and a function definition. How does one arrive at these probability density functions or probability distributions? There are basically two approaches. The frequentist approach is to carry out some kind of experiments, generate a set of data points, and try and estimate the function by a process akin to curve fitting. The subjective approach would be to bring to fore one s knowledge and hypothesize a function, and perhaps learn the parameter values by matching with observed data. Readers familiar with probability and statistics, would notice the similarity of the curve in Figure 17.26 with the well known Gaussian or normal distribution, characteriz