tain, morphology, and growth conformation). When such an identification is relatively certain, an appropriate therapy may then be recommended. The numeric value (0.7) given in the THEN part of the above rule corresponds to an expert's estimate of degree of belief one can place in the rule conclusion when the three conditions in the IF part have been satisfied. Thus, the belief associated with the rule may be thought of as a (subjective) conditional probability P(111 E1 .E..E) = 0.7, where H is the hypothesis that the organism is streptococcus, and E1, E., and E3 correspond to the three pieces ofjoint evidence given in the IF part, respectively. MYCIN uses measures of both belief and disbelief to represent degrees of confirmation and disconfirmation respectively in a given hypothesis. The basic fleasure of belief, denoted by MB(H,E), is actually a measure of the increased belief in hypothesis H due to the evidence E. This is roughly equivalent to the estimated increase in probability of P(HIE) over P(H) given by an expert as a result of the knowledge gained by E. A value of 0 corresponds to no increase in belief and I corresponds to maximum increase or absolute belief. Likewise, MD(I-f .E) is measure of the increased disbelief in hypothesis H due to evidence E. MD ranges from 0 to + I. also, with + I representing maximum increase in disbelief. (total disbelief) and 0 representing no increase. In both measures, the evidence E may be absent or may be replaced with another hypothesis, MB(111 .112). This represents the increased belief in H1 given H2 is true. In an attempt to formalize the uncertainty measure in MYCIN, definitions of MB and MD have been given in terms of prior and conditional probabilities. It Sec. 6.5 Ad Hoc Methods 121 should be remembered, however, the actual values are often subjective probability estimates provided by a physician. We have for the definitions if P(H) = I MB(H,E)= p max IP(HIE),PJ1)I - P(H) otherwise (6.11) ma4I,OJ - P(H) if P(H)=0 MD