er(c,IBM) Model(c,Think Book970) Screen Size(c,Inches(14)) Screen Type(c,Color LCD) Memory Size(c,Gigabytes(2)) CPU Speed(c,GHz(1.2)) Offered Product(offer,c) Store(offer,Gen Store) URL(offer, example.com computers 34356.html ) Price(offer, (399)) Date(offer,Today).
Thisexampleillustratesseveralissuesthatarisewhenwetakeseriouslythetaskofknowledge
engineering forcommercialtransactions. Forexample, notice thatthepriceisanattribute of
Section12.8. Summary 467
the offer, not the product itself. This is important because the offer at a given store may
change from day to day even for the same individual laptop; for some categories such as
houses and paintings the same individual object may even be offered simultaneously by
different intermediaries at different prices. There are still more complications that we have
not handled, such asthe possibility that the price depends onthe method ofpayment and on
the buyer s qualifications for certain discounts. The final task is to compare the offers that
havebeenextracted. Forexample,considerthesethreeoffers:
A :1.4GHz CPU,2GBRAM,250GBdisk, 299.
B : 1.2GHz CPU,4GBRAM,350GBdisk, 500.
C : 1.2GHz CPU,2GBRAM,250GBdisk, 399.
C is dominated by A; that is, A is cheaper and faster, and they are otherwise the same. In
general, X dominates Y if X hasabettervalueonatleast oneattribute, andisnotworseon
any attribute. But neither A nor B dominates the other. To decide which is better we need
to know how the buyer weighs CPU speed and price against memory and disk space. The
general topic ofpreferences among multiple attributes isaddressed in Section16.4; fornow,
our shopping agent will simply return a list of all undominated offers that meet the buyer s
description. Inthisexample, both Aand B areundominated. Noticethatthisoutcomerelies
on the assumption that everyone prefers cheaper prices, fasterprocessors, and more storage.
Someattributes,suchasscreensizeonanotebook,dependontheuser sparticularpreference
(portability versusvisibility); forthe