 definition of tomatoes, wehave aset offeatures that serves toidentify
objects that are clearly typical tomatoes, but might not be able to decide forother
objects. (Couldtherebeatomatothatisfuzzylikeapeach?)
This poses a problem for a logical agent. The agent cannot be sure that an
object it has perceived is a tomato, and even if it were sure, it could not be cer-
tain which of the properties of typical tomatoes this one has. This problem is an
inevitable consequence ofoperating inpartially observable environments.
One useful approach is to separate what is true of all instances of a cate-
gory from what is true only of typical instances. So in addition to the category
Tomatoes,wewillalsohavethecategory Typical(Tomatoes). Here,the Typical
functionmapsacategory tothesubclass thatcontainsonlytypicalinstances:
Typical(c) c.
Mostknowledge aboutnatural kindswillactuallybeabouttheirtypicalinstances:
x Typical(Tomatoes) Red(x) Round(x).
Thus, we can write down useful facts about categories without exact defini-
tions. Thedifficulty ofproviding exact definitions formost natural categories was
explainedindepthby Wittgenstein (1953). Heusedtheexampleofgamestoshow
that members of a category shared family resemblances rather than necessary
and sufficient characteristics: what strict definition encompasses chess, tag, soli-
taire,anddodgeball?
The utility of the notion of strict definition was also challenged by
Quine (1953). He pointed out that even the definition of bachelor as an un-
married adult male is suspect; one might, for example, question a statement such
as the Pope is a bachelor. While not strictly false, this usage is certainly infe-
licitous because it induces unintended inferences on the part of the listener. The
tension could perhaps be resolved by distinguishing between logical definitions
suitable for internal knowledge representation and the more nuanced criteria for
felicitous linguistic usage. Thelattermaybeachieved by filtering theassertions
derivedfromthe