form have or contain and a sample as the subject and either chemical element, isotope, or oxide as an object. The action of the rule states that such a sentence is to be interpreted as an instance of the schema (CONTAIN X v) with .v and v being replaced by the ATN's interpretation of subject noun phrase and object respectively. LUNAR is also capable of performing quantification of variables in expressions. The quantifiers are an elaboration of those used in FOPL. They include the standard existential and universal quantifiers "for every" and ...or sonic." as well as others such as ''for the. " "exactly.'' "the single." ''more than," "at least." and so on. For example, an expression with unisersal quantification would appear as (For Every X (SEQ samples): CONTAIN X Overall siliconi 12.6 NATURAL LANGUAGE GENERATION It is sometimes clairiid that language gen..utiun is the exact inverse of language understanding. While it is true the two processes have many difkrences, it is an over simplification to claim that they are exact opposites. The generation of natural language is more difficult than understanding it. since a system must not only decide what to say, but how the Utterances should be stated. A generation system must decide which form is better (active or passive), which words and structures best express the intent, and when to say what To 260 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 produce expressions that are natural and close to humans requires more than rules of syntax, semantics, and discourse. In general, it requires that a coherent plan be developed to carry out multiple goats. A great deal of sophistication goes into the simplest types of utterances when they are intended to convey different shades of meanings and emotions. A participant in a dialog must reason about a hearers understanding and his or her knowledge and goals. During the dialog, the system must maintain proper focus and formulate expressions that either query, explain, direct, lead or just fo