ng, a different object classification would. in general, result. Finding the most meaningful cluster groupings among a set of unknown objects o, requires that similarity patterns be discovered in the feature space. Clustering is usually performed with the intent of capturing any gestalt properties of a group of objects and not just the commonality of certain attribute values. This is one of the basic requirements of( ont eptual clustering (Chapter 19) where the objects are grouped together as members of a concept class. Procedures for conceptual clustering are based on more than simple distance measures. They must also take into account the context (environment) of the objects as well as the goals or objectives of the clustering. The clustering problem gives rise to several subproblems. In particular. before an implementation is possible, the following questions must be addressed. I. What set of attributes and relations are most relevant, and what weights should be given to each'? In what order should attributes be observed or measured? (If the observation process is sequential, ordering may influence the effectiveness of the attributes in discriminating among objects.) Sec. 13.3 Learning Classification Patterns 279 2. What representation formalism should be used to characterize the objects' 3. What representation scheme should be used to describe the cluster groupings or classifications? Usually. some simplification results if the single representation trick can be used (the use of a single representation method for both object and cluster descriptions). 4. What clustering criteria is most consistent with and effective in achieving the objectives relative to the context or domain? This requires consideration of an appropriate distance or similarity measure compatible with the description domains noted In 2. above. 5. What clustering algorithms can best meet the criteria in 2 within acceptable time and space complexity bounds By now questions such as these should be