e is required in the data or procedure, only the changed object need be modified. Other objects are not affected and therefore require no modifications. In object-oriented systems there is a simplicity in structure because almost everything is an object. For example, a car can be regarded as an object consisting of many interacting components or subobjects: an engine, electrical system, fuel system, drive train, controls, and so on. To model such a system using an objectoriented approach requires that all parts be declared as objects, each one characterized by its own attributes and its own operational behavior. Even a simple windshield wiper would be described as an object with given attributes and operations. As such, it might be described as the structure presented in Figure 8.1. This object has a name, a class characterization, several distinguishing attributes, and a set of operations. Since all characteristics of the wiper object, including its operations, are contained within a single entity, only this entity needs changing when some design change is made to this part of the car. Other objects that interact with it are not affected, provided the communication procedures between the objects were not changed To initiate the task of cleaning moisture from the windshield requires only that a message be sent to the object. This message can remain the OBJECT NAME left wiper AKO wiper A11'RIBUTES made of rubber and metal length: 14 inches color black and silver location: lower left windshield function: nib moisture from windshield OPERATIONS turn-on switch; move in air on windhjeld repeating clockwise then counter-clockwise turn-off switch: move to home position FIgure 8.1 Object description for a windshield wiper. Sec. 8.2 Overview of Object-Oriented Systems 149 same even though the structure of the wiper or its mode of operation may have changed. Because there is more than one wiper, each with similar attributes and operations. some savings in memory and procedure