 In the early
RANGEFINDER
days of robotics, robots were commonly equipped with sonar sensors. Sonar sensors emit
SONARSENSORS
directional sound waves, which are reflected by objects, with some of the sound making it
974 Chapter 25. Robotics
(a) (b)
Figure25.3 (a) Time offlightcamera; image courtesyof Mesa Imaging Gmb H. (b)3D
rangeimageobtainedwiththiscamera.Therangeimagemakesitpossibletodetectobstacles
andobjectsinarobot svicinity.
back into the sensor. The time and intensity of the returning signal indicates the distance
to nearby objects. Sonar is the technology of choice for autonomous underwater vehicles.
Stereovision(see Section24.4.2)reliesonmultiplecamerastoimagethe environment from
STEREOVISION
slightly different viewpoints, analyzing theresulting parallax intheseimagestocomputethe
range of surrounding objects. For mobile ground robots, sonar and stereo vision are now
rarelyused,becausetheyarenotreliablyaccurate.
Mostgroundrobotsarenowequippedwithopticalrangefinders. Justlikesonarsensors,
opticalrangesensorsemitactivesignals(light)andmeasurethetimeuntilareflectionofthis
TIMEOFFLIGHT signalarrivesbackatthesensor. Figure25.3(a)showsa timeofflightcamera. Thiscamera
CAMERA
acquires range images like the one shown in Figure 25.3(b) at up to 60 frames per second.
Other range sensors use laser beams and special 1-pixel cameras that can be directed using
complex arrangements of mirrors or rotating elements. These sensors are called scanning
lidars (short for light detection and ranging). Scanning lidars tend to provide longer ranges
SCANNINGLIDARS
thantimeofflightcameras,andtendtoperformbetterinbrightdaylight.
Other common range sensors include radar, which is often the sensor of choice for
UA Vs. Radar sensors can measure distances of multiple kilometers. On the other extreme
end of range sensing are tactile sensors such as whiskers, bump panels, and touch-sensitive
TACTILESENSORS
skin. These sensors measure range based on physical contact, and can be deployed onl