 layer should be enough to create all the intermediate representations needed to create the complex decision surfaces the problem requires. At the same time, the number must not be too large because then it would be difficult to train the system. Usually, a process of trial and error is involved. The number of training examples needed is also a parameter that needs attention. A heuristic commonly used is that the number of training instances should be ten times the number of weights to be adjusted. 18.8.3 Self Organization How did the biological brain evolve? How do life forms come up with a system that can process visual signals and auditory signals? While there is certainly a flavour of supervised learning in human children, especially in matters relating to language, there is a considerable amount of learning that happens in an unsupervised manner. A human child is born with a complete visual system but is only able to see things gradually over a period of time. The neural network that does early processing, meaning the initial processing of the impinging information, develops by a process of unsupervised learning during which a child learns to focus, learns eye coordination, perceive depth, and perceive colour. This learning happens as the child s brain processes the input signals, and while doing so adapts to make sense of those signals. Such learning is called self organized learning. A newborn infant has a set of neural connections that are not tuned to its surroundings. As it processes the incoming signals, the certain neural connections are reinforced at the expense of others and an information processing architecture evolves. Studies in neurobiology have identified four principles of self organization learning (Haykin, 2009). Self-amplification Neural pathways that are used more often tend to strengthen. If two neurons on either side of a synapse are excited simultaneously then the strength of the synapse is increased. This was first postulated by Donald H