ory. * Use the script(s) to fill in unspecified parts of the text to be understood. Both of these aspects of reasoning with scripts have already been discussed in Section 10.2. The storyunderstanding program SAM [Cullingford, 1981] demonstrated the usefulness of such reasoning with scripts in natural language understanding. To understand a story, SAM first employed a parser that translated the English sentences . into their conceptual dependency representation. Then it built a representation of the entire text using the relationships indicated by the relevant scripts. Modeling Individual Beliefs As soon as we decide to represent individual beliefs, we need to introduce some explicit predicate(s) to indicate that a fact is believed. Up until now, belief has been indicated only by the presence or absence of assertions in the knowledge base. To model belief, we need to move to a logic that supports reasoning about 4From Kingsley Amis Jake s Thing. | : Natural Language Processing 317 belief propositions. The standard approach is to use a modal logic such as that defined in Hintikka [1962]. Logic, or classical logic, deals with the truth or falsehood of different statements as they are. Modal logic, on the other hand, concerns itself with the different modes in which a statement may be true. Modal logics allow us to talk about the truth of a set of propositions not only in the current state of the real world, but also about their truth or falsehood in the past or the future (these are called temporal logics), and about their truth or falsehood under circumstances that might have been, but were not (these are sometimes called conditional logics), We have already used one idea from modal logic, namely the notion necessarily true. We used it in Section 13.5, when we talked about nonlinear planning in TWEAK. Modal logics also allow us to talk of the truth or falsehood of statements concerning the beliefs, knowledge, desires, intentions, and obligations of people and robots, 