.3. For
example,ontheseconditeration, therule
Missile(x) Weapon(x)
matchesagainst Missile(M )(again), andofcourse theconclusion Weapon(M )isalready
1 1
known so nothing happens. Such redundant rule matching can be avoided if we make the
following observation: Every new fact inferred on iteration t must be derived from at least
one new fact inferred on iteration t 1. This is true because any inference that does not
requireanewfactfromiteration t 1couldhavebeendoneatiteration t 1already.
This observation leads naturally to an incremental forward-chaining algorithm where,
atiterationt,wecheckaruleonlyifitspremiseincludesaconjunct p thatunifieswithafact
i
p (cid:2) newlyinferredatiteration t 1. Therule-matching stepthenfixesp tomatchwithp (cid:2) ,but
i i i
allows the other conjuncts of the rule to match with facts from any previous iteration. This
algorithmgeneratesexactlythesamefactsateachiterationasthealgorithmin Figure9.3,but
ismuchmoreefficient.
With suitable indexing, it is easy to identify all the rules that can be triggered by any
givenfact,andindeedmanyrealsystemsoperateinan update modewhereinforwardchain-
ing occurs in response to each new fact that is TEL Led to the system. Inferences cascade
through thesetofrulesuntilthefixedpointisreached, andthentheprocess beginsagainfor
thenextnewfact.
Typically,onlyasmallfractionoftherulesintheknowledgebaseareactuallytriggered
by the addition of a given fact. This means that a great deal of redundant work is done in
repeatedly constructing partial matches that have some unsatisfied premises. Our crime ex-
ampleisrathertoosmalltoshowthiseffectively,butnoticethatapartialmatchisconstructed
onthefirstiterationbetweentherule
American(x) Weapon(y) Sells(x,y,z) Hostile(z) Criminal(x)
andthefact American(West). Thispartialmatchisthendiscardedandrebuiltonthesecond
iteration (when the rule succeeds). It would be better to retain and gradually complete the
partialmatchesasnewfactsarrive,ratherthandiscarding them.
The rete algorithm