hil53, cricketPracticel1), tg) The detailed proofs are beyond the scope of this text. The interested reader is referred to (Lifschitz, 1985; 1994), (Mueller, 2006) and (Shanahan, 1995; 1997). Our focus has been on representation in this chapter, and we are looking at how one can represent the relationship between events and fluents in a logic based setting. 13.5.4 A Simpler Narrative Nz Why did we use the action planToRide(P, B, S, D) instead of the action ride(P, B, S, D) directly? Suppose we had given the narrative stating the events that had actually happened as follows, . Happens(fillAir(nikhil53, bicycle39), t4) Il. Happens(ride(nikhil53, bicycle39, home86, restaurant 66), tz) Ill. Happens(eat(nikhil53, restaurant66), ts) IV. Happens(ride(nikhil53, bicycle39, restaurant66, cricketPractice11), t7) then the conclusion requires a smaller set of assumptions, only for the period between t7 and tg. This is because the events that have been stated as happened must have happened (because we assume our knowledge base is consistent). Thus we can be sure that the last ride event initiates the fluent loc(Nikhil53, cricketPractice11) at time t7, and we only have to assume that ggthing happens after that. The earlier narrative N, stated that Nikhil intends taaidgnbiscbike to the restaurant, intends to eat, and intends to go to cricket practice. The intention of the actor is known. Using Circumscription, we can assume that these plans will indeed work, since we have no knowledge of any other events that could have possibly interfered with intention, and we can conclude that he is at cricket practice at time t7. This conclusion is a default or tentative or defeasible conclusion, valid only under the assumption that all relevant events and their effects have been explicitly stated. However, the story N, does allow for a new event to be added to the knowledge base, for example that Lavanya deflates his bike at time t,. V. Happens(deflate(lavanya7, bicycle39), t,) Our knowledge b