d be used to solve the problem of getting from one place to another. Assume that the available operators are walk, drive, take the bus, take a cab, and fly. Imagine a robot trying to move from one place in a city to another. It has complete knowledge of the connecting roads in the city. As it moves the road condition keep changing. If the robot is to reach its destination within a prescribed time, suggest an algorithm for the same. (Hint: Split the road map into a set of connected nodes and imagine that the costs of moving trom one node to the other change based on some time-dependent conditions). PART Il KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATION CHAPTER 4. KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATION ISSUES In general we are least aware of what our minds do best. ~ Marvin Minsky (1927-), American cognitive scientist In Chapter |, we discussed the role that knowledge plays in AI systems. In succeeding chapters up until now, though, we have paid little attention to knowledge and its importance as we instead focused on basic frameworks for building search-based problem-solving programs. These methods are sufficiently general that we have been able to discuss them without reference to how the knowledge they need is to be represented. For example, in discussing the best-first search algorithm, we hid all the references to domain-specific knowledge in the generation of successors and the computation of the A function. Although these methods are useful and form the skeleton of many of the methods we are about to discuss, their problem-solving power is limited precisely because of their generality. As we look in more detail at ways of representing knowledge, it becomes clear that particular knowledge representation models allow for more specific, more powerful problem-solving mechanisms that operate on them. In this part of the book, we return to the topic of knowledge and examine specific techniques that can be used for representing and manipulating knowledge within programs. 4.1 REPRESENTATIONS AND MAPPINGS