de)) 12. Construct a Rete net for the following set of rules: age cf y is agel ageX y is olcer than x 4 make (tau of z is y )) Bule 3: (rp younger-Than age cf x is ageX age cf y is ageY ageX make (younger than y is x )) In the Rete net show, where the tokens for the following data will reside, and what is the Conflict Set? Token 1: (age Sof Ramu is 17) Token 2: (age of Ramesh is 36) Token 3: (brother of Mahesh is Ramesh) Token 4: (son of Suresh is Ramesh) Token 5: (son of Mahesh is Ramu) 13. Write a rule to define transitivity of the younger relation. 14. A typical bank manager may decide to sanction a loan to an applicant based on some criteria such as creditworthiness, source of income, existing loans, nature of job, salary, etc. Define a set of attributes that a bank manager might use and write a few sample rules. 15. Write a rule based program to make a move in the Cross Noughts (or tic-tac-toe) game. 16. Consider the task of writing a piece of software (or an app ) for assisting decision making in a medical emergency. For example, one might be able to prescribe some action immediately (loosen the clothes; or sprinkle water). Or one may be able to say that the person needs to be taken to a hospital immediately. Design a few sample rules that would go into such a system. To look at an extreme example, graphite and diamonds are just different arrangements (allotropes) of carbon atoms. 2 The Joshua Lederberg Papers, Computers, Artificial Intelligence, and Expert Systems in Biomedical Research, in Profiles In Science, National Library of Medicine, available at http: profiles.nim.nih.gov BB Views Exhibit narrative ai.html The so called Official Production System language was developed by Charles Forgy in Carnegie Mellon University. McDermott s 1980 paper on R1 won the AAAI Classic Paper Award in 1999. According to legend, the name of R1 comes from McDermott, who supposedly said as he was writing it, Three years ago wanted to be a knowledge engineer, and today are one