return to and
STRICTLYSTABLE
Section25.6. Moving 999
thenstayonitsreference pathuponsuchperturbations. Our Pcontrollerappears tobestable
butnotstrictlystable, sinceitfailstostayanywherenear itsreference trajectory.
The simplest controller that achieves strict stability in our domain is a PD controller.
PDCONTROLLER
Theletter P standsagainforproportional, and D standsforderivative. PDcontrollers are
described bythefollowingequation: (y(t) x )
a K (y(t) x ) K t . (25.2)
t P t D t
As this equation suggests, PD controllers extend P controllers by a differential component,
which adds to the value of a a term that is proportional to the first derivative of the error
t
y(t) x overtime. Whatistheeffectofsuchaterm? Ingeneral, aderivativetermdampens
t
thesystemthatisbeingcontrolled. Toseethis,considerasituationwheretheerror(y(t) x )
t
ischanging rapidlyovertime,asisthecaseforour Pcontroller above. Thederivativeofthis
error will then counteract the proportional term, which will reduce the overall response to
theperturbation. However,ifthesameerrorpersists anddoesnotchange, thederivativewill
vanishandtheproportional termdominates thechoiceofcontrol.
Figure25.22(c) showstheresult ofapplying this PDcontroller toourrobot arm, using
asgainparameters K .3and K .8. Clearly,theresulting pathismuchsmoother, and
P D
doesnotexhibitanyobviousoscillations.
PD controllers do have failure modes, however. In particular, PD controllers may fail
to regulate an error down to zero, even in the absence of external perturbations. Often such
a situation is the result of a systematic external force that is not part of the model. An au-
tonomouscardrivingonabanked surface, forexample, mayfinditselfsystematically pulled
to one side. Wearand tear in robot arms cause similar systematic errors. In such situations,
anover-proportionalfeedbackisrequiredtodrivetheerrorclosertozero. Thesolutiontothis
problemliesinaddingathirdtermtothecontrollaw,basedontheintegratederrorovertime:
(cid:26) (y(t) x )
a K (y(t) x