
are about 20 times more difficult to solve than those at a ratio of 3.3. The underconstrained
problems are easiest to solve (because it is so easy to guess a solution); the overconstrained
problemsarenotaseasyastheunderconstrained, butstillaremucheasierthantheonesright
atthethreshold.
Section7.7. Agents Basedon Propositional Logic 265
7.7 AGENTS BASED ON PROPOSITIONAL LOGIC
In this section, webring together what we have learned so far in order to construct wumpus
worldagentsthatusepropositionallogic. Thefirststepistoenabletheagenttodeduce,tothe
extent possible, thestate oftheworldgiven itspercept history. Thisrequires writing downa
completelogicalmodeloftheeffectsofactions. Wealsoshowhowtheagentcankeeptrackof
the world efficiently without going back into the percept history for each inference. Finally,
we show how the agent can use logical inference to construct plans that are guaranteed to
achieveitsgoals.
7.7.1 The current stateofthe world
As stated at the beginning of the chapter, a logical agent operates by deducing what to do
from a knowledge base of sentences about the world. The knowledge base is composed of
axioms general knowledge about how the world works and percept sentences obtained
fromtheagent sexperienceinaparticularworld. Inthissection,wefocusontheproblemof
deducing thecurrentstateofthewumpusworld wheream I,is thatsquaresafe,andsoon.
Webegancollecting axioms in Section 7.4.3. Theagent knows thatthe starting square
containsnopit( P )andnowumpus( W ). Furthermore, foreachsquare, itknowsthat
1,1 1,1
thesquareisbreezyifandonlyifaneighboringsquarehasapit;andasquareissmellyifand
onlyifaneighboring squarehasawumpus. Thus,weinclude alargecollection ofsentences
ofthefollowingform:
B (P P )
1,1 1,2 2,1
S (W W )
1,1 1,2 2,1 Theagentalsoknowsthatthereisexactlyonewumpus. Thisisexpressed intwoparts. First,
wehavetosaythatthereisatleastonewumpus:
W W W W .
1,1 1,2 4,3 4,4
Then, wehave tosaythat there is atmostonewumpus. Foreach pairoflocations, weadd a
sentence s