ove that Marcus was not loyal to Caesar (again ignoring the distinction between past and present tense). Now let s try to produce a formal proof, reasoning backward from the desired goal: aloyalto(Marcus, Caesar) In order to prove the goal, we need to use the rules of inference to transform it into another goal (or possibly a set of goals) that can in turn be transformed, and so on, until there are no unsatisfied goals remaining. This process may require the search of an AND-OR graph (as described in Section 3.4) when there are alternative ways of satisfying individual goals. Here, for simplicity, we show only a single path. Figure 5.2 shows an attempt to produce a proof of the goal by reducing the set of necessary but as yet unattained goals to the empty set. The attempt fails, however, since there is no way to satisfy the goal person (Murcus) with the statements we have available. The problem is that, although we know that Marcus was a man, we do not have any way to conclude from that that Marcus was a person. We need to add the representation of another fact to our system, namely: 7 loyalto(Marcus, Caesar) T (7, substitution) person(Marcus)/\ ruler(Caesar/\ tryassassinate( Marcus, Caesar) Tt (4) person{ Marcus) tryassassinate{Marcus, Caesar Tt (8) person(Marcus) Fig. 5.2 An Attempt to Prove sloyalto(Marcus,Caesar) All men are people. V + man{x) > person(x) . Now we can satisfy the last goal and produce a proof that Marcus was not loyal to Caesar. From this simple example, we see that three important issues must be addressed in the process of converting English sentences into logical statements and then using those statements to deduce new ones: Many English sentences are ambiguous (for example, 5, 6, and 7 above). Choosing the correct interpretation may be difficult. There is often a choice of how to represent the knowledge (as discussed in connection with 1, and 7 above). Simple representations are desirable, but they may preclude certain kinds of reasoning. The