sentence, but rather out of conceptual primitives that can be combined to form the meanings of words in any particular language. The theory was first described in Schank [1973] and was further developed in Schank [1975]. It has since been implemented in a variety of programs that read and understand natural language text. Unlike semantic nets, which provide only a structure into which nodes 208 tepresenting information at any level can be placed, conceptual dependency provides both a structure and a specific set of primitives, at a particular level of granularity, out of which representations of particular pieces Artificial Intelligence ANANTH ENTE of information can be constructed. to 2 man 16 ATRANS ~ book ~R from I where the symbols have the following meanings: Arrows indicate direction of dependency. Double arrow indicates two way link between actor and action. Pp indicates past tense. ATRANS is one of the primitive acts used by the theory. It indicates transfer of possession. o indicates the object case relation. R indicates the recipient case relation. Fig. 10.1 A Simple Conceptual Dependency Representation As a simple example of the way knowledge is represented in CD, the event represented by the sentence I gave the man a book. would be represented as shown in Fig. 10.1. In CD, representations of actions are built from a set of primitive acts. Although there are slight differences in the exact set of primitive actions provided in the various sources on CD, a typical set is the following, taken from Schank and Abelson [1977]: ATRANS PTRANS PROPEL MOVE GRASP INGEST EXPEL MTRANS MBUILD SPEAK ATTEND Transfer of an abstract relationship (e.g., give) Transfer of the physical location of an object (e.g., go) Application of physical force to an object (e.g., push) Movement of a body part by its owner (e.g., kick) Grasping of an object by an actor (e.g., clutch) Ingestion of an object by an animal (e.g.. eat) Expulsion of something from the body of an animal (e.g., cr