many situations where a player is aware of the opponent's choice while making a move. To distinguish between these two cases, one often draws the extensive form of the game (McCain, 2004) as shown in Figure 8.4. The idea is that the second player does not know which part of the tree he is operating in. This is depicted by merging the nodes at the second level into an information set. One observation that one makes about the game is that simply acting rationally from one player s perspective, does not yield the best possible result. In this example, if both players were to deny then they would have both got a penalty of -50, known as the Pareto optimal (after Vilfredo Pareto), but by rationally choosing to confess they both end up incurring a penalty of -100 each, reaching the Nash equilibrium (after John Nash). That is because rationality here is taking a pessimistic or conservative view trying to cater for the worst that can happen. In practice, human beings are often optimistic, they dream, they gamble and take chances, and they cooperate with each other. And on the average, they are better off as a result. He Ne nies Confesses You cay J oe cnt Nee You get 100 You get 200 You get 10 You get 50 FIGURE 8.4 An information set is a node in an extensive form that hides the choice of the first player. The second player has to choose without knowledge of the move made by the other player. Games thus are abstractions of interactions between agents. In the Prisoner s Dilemma example we saw above, the two players had to play simultaneously. Also, the strategy is concerned with choosing that one move. We will focus instead on board games like Chess, in which the two players play a sequence of alternating moves and the outcome is determined only when the game ends. Such games may be called board games. These games could in principle be represented and analysed by constructing the payoff table, but in practice, such a process would be cumbersome and computationally demanding. 