nal if it behaves in a manner that is optimal with respect to its goals. Unfortunately, in a complex world, an agent may not have enough processing power to behave optimally. This leads to a slightly weaker, but more useful, notion of bounded rationality [Simon, 1957]: Bounded rationality is a property of an agent that behaves in a manner that is as nearly optimal with respect to its goals as its resources allow. Bounded rationality is akin to the notion of satisficing that we discussed in Chapter 2. Using these ideas, we can define techniques that an individual agent can use to attain its goals, taking into account what will probably happen as a result of what the other agents in its environment are likely to do. Sometimes, the other agents are cooperating to achieve the same goal. Sometimes they are working on other goals, which may be competitive or simply orthogonal. We consider two classes of approaches to this problem: e Planning with communication Planning without communication | 5 340 Artificial Intelligence The first approach is one in which the agents can communicate freely with each other during problem solving. In this case, the agents can each create their own plans, which are composed both of problem-solving actions and of communication actions of the sort we described in Section 15.4. Sometimes the communication actions are addressed to a specific other agent who is believed to be able to satisfy a request (either for information or to perform some other task). In other systems, the agents do not know explicitly about each other. Instead, each agent can broadcast to a shared memory structure, which other agents can be counted on to read. Each agent can then reply to those messages to which it chooses to pay attention. We describe one specific way of implementing such a broadcast structure as a blackboard system in Section 16.3.2. One specific technique that several communicating agents can use is called the functionally acpurate, cooperative (FA/C) ap