The idea here is to treat the design problem as a redesign problem, begin with a (faulty) design, and apply model based approaches to arrive a design to match the new specifications. Figure 17.12 shows an example which has been commonly used in the model based diagnosis literature. The device consists of three multipliers Mul,, Mulz and Mul3z, which feed their output to two adders Add, and Addz, whose output appears at terminals F, and Fo respectively. The figure shows the values of the six inputs and the expected outputs at F; and Fo. The actual output for Add, shown in square brackets is at variance with the expected one. A problem of diagnosis is at hand. Figure 17.12 A simple device made of three multipliers and two adders. A fault has occurred because the observed value at F, 10 differs from the predicted value 10. A model for the above device should allow us to compute the expected output, given any input. For example, the components could be modelled as functions in a First Order Logic (FOL) with equality (see Chapter 12). Multiplier(M) output(M) Product(input,(M), input,(M)) Adder(A) output(A) Sum(input,(A), input,(A)) The structure of the device shown above could be modelled as, Multiplier(Mul,) Multiplier(Mul,) Multiplier(Mul;) Adder(Add,) Adder(Addy) 0 input,(Mul) Ay inputy(Mul,) By 0 input,(Mul,) Ay 0 input Mul) By A input(Muls) As inputy(Mul;) By n input,(Add,) Dy 0 inputyAdd,) Ey A input(Addy) Dy 0 inputy(Addy) Ey A output(Mul,) C, 0 outpur(Mul;) Cy 0 ouput(Mul,) C A output Addy) F, 0 output(Addy) Fy AC, D, A Cy Ey A Cy Dy A C Dy The sentence C, D, says that the output of Mul, is connected to the input of Add,, and likewise for similar statements. The reader should verify that given the facts A, 3, By 2, Ap 3, Bp 2, Ag 3, and Bs 2, the values F, 12 and Fo 12 follow. However, as pointed out by Davis and Hamscher (1988), being able to reason in the forward direction is not enough. The task of diagnosis requires that one should be able to propagate the ob