B, denoted as CIR(KB:P), is given by Cfl((KB : P) = KB & IV4)(KB(4)) & (Vx4)(x) -. P(x))J - Vx IP(x) - This amounts to replacing KB with a different KB in which some expression 4) (in this example 4) = (x = a V x = b)) replaces each occurrence of P (here CSSTUDENT). The first conjunct inside the bracket identifies the required substitution. The second conjunct, Vx4)(x) - P(x), states that objects which satisfy 4) also satisy P. while the conclusion states that 4) and P are then equivalent. Making the designated substitution in our example we obtain the circumscriptive inference From CSSTUDENT( ) & CSSTUDENT(b). infer Vx(CSSTUDENT(x) -. (.r = a V x = b) Note that 4) has been quantified in the circumscription schema above, making it a second order formula. This need not be of too much concern since in many cases the formula can be rewritten in equivalent first order form. An interesting example used by Mc Carthy in motivating circumscription, related to the task of getting across a river when only a row boat was available. For problems such as this, it should only be necessary to considei those objects named as being important to the task completion and not innumerable other contingencies, like a hole in the boat, lost oars, breaking up on a rock, or building a bridge. 5.5 MODAL AND TEMPORAL LOGICS Modal logics were invented to extend the expressive power of traditional logics. The original intent was to add the ability to express the necessity and possibility of propositions P in PL and FOPL. Later, other modal logics were introduced to help capture and represent additional subjective mood concepts (supposition, desire) in addition to the standard indicative mood (factual) concept representations given by PL and FOPL With modal logics we can also represent possible worlds in addition to the actual world in which we live. Thus, unlike traditional logics, where an interpretation of a wif results in an assignment of true or false (in one world only), an interpretation i