aves the only minimal candidate which says that the bulbs B, and Bz must be broken. 17.5 Probabilistic Reasoning So far our view of knowledge and belief has been through a Boolean lens. Propositions are either true or false. And they take a truth value, due to their relation to other propositions by a process of inference, or because they are assumptions or premises. Our goal has been to arrive at a consistent set of beliefs, in which there are no contradictions. However, it is not practical to always maintain large amounts of propositional knowledge, and make the relevant logical inferences. For example, one cannot describe the world in terms of the fundamental particles our universe is made of. As discussed earlier (see Section 14.1), one way we get around the problem is to devise abstractions that exist as reified objects that we can reason with in a tractable manner. However, even after doing that, the amount of propositional knowledge remains unmanageable. There are other reasons why we cannot make definitive statements about the world, the principal one being that we simply do not have enough information about the world. Consider the statement There exists intelligent life elsewhere in our galaxy or even There exists life somewhere else out there in the universe 2 . There are innumerable questions we are unable to answer exactly (each of them can be converted into a yes no question or a proposition). How many species exist on our earth? The answers are estimates ranging from 2 million to 100 million2 . How many green leaves are there on that tree? If white plays perfectly, can it always win in chess? Who leaked the general s letter? It is the monsoon season in Mumbai. Will it rain on July 11? Anrav is playing outside. Has he finished his homework? Anish is looking very happy. Did he win his badminton match? Malala has high fever and shivering. Has she got malaria? Even though we cannot assign Boolean truth values to such statements, we would often like to make