n this direction is the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative which defines the metadata needed to describe documents on the web (DCMI, 1999) (also see hitp: dublincore.org ). The Dublin Core element set (dc) defines the basic vocabulary of a language used for describing resources documents ?xml version 1.0 ? . rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf http: www.w3.org 1999 02 22-rdf-syntax-ns xmlns:rdfs http: www.w3.org 2000 01 rdf-schema xml:base http: www.musicology.example music rdfs:Class rdf:ID music rdfis:Class rdf:ID hindustani rdfs:subClassof rdf:resource music rdfs:Class rdfs:Class rdf:ID khayal rdfs:subClassof rdf:resource rdfs:Class hindustani rdfs:Class rdf:ID thumri rdfs:subClassof rdf:resource rdfs:Class hindustani rdf:RDF FIGURE 13.3 Class definitions in RDFS. (Baker, 2000). The DCMI Abstract model of the resource is as follows. The abstract model of the resources described by descriptions is as follows: Each described resource is described using one or more property-value pairs. Each property-value pair is made up of one property and one value. Each value is a resource the physical, digital or conceptual entity or iteral that is associated with a property when a property-value pair is used to describe a resource. Therefore, each value is either a literal value or a nonliteral value: A literal value is a value which is a literal. A non-literal value is a value which is a physical, digital or conceptual entity. A literal is an entity which uses a Unicode string as a lexical form, together with an optional language tag or datatype, to denote a resource (i.e. literal as defined by RDF). The Dublin Core set constitutes of the following property names (see (DCES)) - de: contributor dc: coverage dc: creator contributors to the document) where the resource is located) the creator) dc:date date of publishing) dc: description a brief account of the resource) de:format format of presentation) de: identifier kadinitoone a URI for the resource) language of content) de:publisher (publisher) d