t, only when certain conditions are met. That is beyond the scope of this text. But we are concerned with the fact that colonies of interconnected neurons become the complex information processing machine, that is the brain. How does that happen? Constructing brains directly from neurons though is still beyond our means. But we do know that representing and reasoning of information is possible because of the connections between neurons. It is the topology of the connections between these billions of neurons that determines what thoughts go on in our heads. The brain is a large network of simple processing elements, a neural network. The brain is an emergent system, in which complex behaviour emerges from a system of many interacting simple elements, the neurons. We illustrate emergent systems in the following section. If the performance of neural network is directly dependent upon the connectivity and graded influence of different neurons then how does one decide how much one neuron affects another? In other words, how does one decide the weight of each neural connection? The approach taken by the Artificial Neural Network community is learning. We shall look at it in Chapter 18. The basic idea is to develop algorithms that adjust the weights, based on training data that is shown to the system. The approach to learning is also inspired by how human brains learn. A newborn human child does not have a very effective brain. Initially, the human brain is overly connected. But gradually, with a lot of training by parents and other adults, the child s brain breaks some connections and strengthens others; in the process developing a keen and incisive brain that gives the human a definite advantage over other species. In humans, the brain makes connections in early childhood. But we can also reconnect for example, visually impaired people can use that unused part of the brain for other tasks. As an example, blind people who learn to read Braille use the part of the brain th