ces or atomic formulas or proposi sntence or formula is the smallest unit to which a truth value can be assigned. ill use the symbols a, B, y, and 6 to denote sentences (or formulas) in the language. The set of sente 1 by the following, Le Sp T Sp Propositional Logic Semantics ning of an atomic sentence a P is decided externally by the user. It may stand for any statement I hematics or The mountain is on fire . The truth value of an atomic sentence is also decided extern function that maps all atomic sentences to the set true, false , or equivalently t, f, or T, L or 1, luation function, V: P true, false iatural language sentence that can in principle be mapped to true or false is a proposition. This s like White can always win in chess or Chess games are always drawn with perfect play , even th ow if they are true or not. Propositions are assertive statements, or assertions. Interrogative sente play chess today? or imperative sentences like Let us play a game of chess are not proposi Russell showed, certain self referential sentences that appear to be assertions are also to be e sentences like This sentence is false or even a combination of sentences like The following se preceding sentence is false. Such sentences are at the heart of G del s Incompleteness theorem. the meaning and the truth value of a compound sentence are determined by the meaning of the cc s and the logical connectives. The meaning of logical connectives is fixed. The truth value of c s, the mapping Val: Sp true, false is determined by structural induction as follows, Val(T ) true Val( L) false For all ae P, Val(a ) Via) f Val(c) true then Val( ) false if Val( ) false then Val( ) true if Val(a:) false and Val(B) false then Val(av B) false else Val(av f) 'f Val(o:) true and Val(B) false then Val( f) false else Val(a 8) if Val(o:) true and Val(B) true then Val(a A f) true else Val( A B) Validity, Satisfiability and Unsatisfiability ce or formula in logic falls into one of the following three class