 Summary 528 Exercises 528 26. Conclusion 529 26.1 Components of an AI Program 529 26.2 Al Skeptics An Open Argument 529 Exercises 530 References $33 Author Index $53 Subject Index 558 PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION With the Internet and the World Wide Web penetrating all walks of life, the field of Artificial Intelligence (AD has of late, seen a resurgence and an upward trend in the last decade. The earlier edition did cater well to the needs of a basic course in AI and still does. But the need to add areas which have slowly and unknowingly glued on to the field of AI has forced the birth of this new edition, While almost all the contents of the previous edition have been retained, this book has been augmented by specific chapters describing the newer areas that have found a variety of uses in a gamut of domains. It is envisaged that these areas, coupled with the classical AI models should definitely motivate the reader to generate novel ideas for Al-based application scenarios. Four new chapters find their way into this new edition, namely, Fuzzy Logic Systems Genetic Algorithms: Copying Nature s Approaches Artificial Immune Systems PROLOG The Natural Language of Artificial Intelligence Bwnynr Chapter 22 entitled Fuzzy Logic Systems. highlights aspects of the conventional crisp sets and introduces the concept of fuzzy sets. It describes the design methodology of a fuzzy air cooler through a real-world application. Some relevant aspects of how memberships can be tweaked (Fuzzy Hedges) are also descrihed. A fuzzy system augmented with neural technology to achieve neuro-fuzzy control is explained in this chapter. Chapter 23 deals with Nature s own method of optimization and is thus entitled Genetic Algorithms: Copying Nature s Approaches. It elucidates the use of Genetic Algorithms (GA) in optimization and learning. A typical case of optimization with constraints using the example of allocating employees based on their skills has been described. As a tail-ender to this