forthistowork,thereneedstobesometextureorvariationinthescene. Ifoneislooking
at a uniform white wall, then the SSD is going to be nearly the same for the different can-
Section24.2. Early Image-Processing Operations 941
Figure24.10 Twoframesofavideosequence. Ontherightistheopticalflowfieldcor-
responding to the displacement from one frame to the other. Note how the movement of
thetennisracketandthe frontleg iscapturedbythe directionsof thearrows. (Courtesyof
Thomas Brox.)
didate matches, and the algorithm is reduced to making a blind guess. The best-performing
algorithms for measuring optical flow rely on a variety of additional constraints when the
sceneisonlypartially textured.
24.2.4 Segmentation ofimages
Segmentationistheprocessofbreakinganimageintoregionsofsimilarpixels. Eachimage
SEGMENTATION
pixel can be associated with certain visual properties, such as brightness, color, and texture.
REGIONS
Within an object, or a single part of an object, these attributes vary relatively little, whereas
across an inter-object boundary there is typically a large change in one or more of these at-
tributes. Therearetwoapproachestosegmentation,onefocusingondetectingtheboundaries
oftheseregions, andtheotherondetecting theregionsthemselves(Figure24.11).
Aboundary curvepassing throughapixel (x,y)willhaveanorientation ,sooneway
toformalizetheproblem ofdetecting boundarycurvesisasa machinelearningclassification
problem. Based on features from a local neighborhood, wewant to compute the probability
P (x,y, )thatindeedthereisaboundarycurveatthatpixelalongthatorientation. Consider
b
a circular disk centered at (x,y), subdivided into two half disks by adiameter oriented at .
If there isa boundary at (x,y, ) the two half disks might be expected to differsignificantly
intheirbrightness,color,andtexture. Martin,Fowlkes,and Malik(2004)usedfeaturesbased
on differences in histograms of brightness, color, and texture values measured in these two
halfdisks, andthen trained aclassifier. Forthi