Kautz and Selman (1998). CPLAN, a planner based on constraint satisfaction, was
described byvan Beekand Chen(1999).
Mostrecently, therehasbeen interest intherepresentation ofplans asbinarydecision
BINARYDECISION diagrams, compact data structures for Boolean expressions widely studied in the hardware
DIAGRAM
verificationcommunity(Clarkeand Grumberg,1987;Mc Millan,1993). Therearetechniques
forprovingpropertiesofbinarydecisiondiagrams,includingthepropertyofbeingasolution
396 Chapter 10. Classical Planning
toaplanning problem. Cimattietal. (1998) present aplannerbased onthisapproach. Other
representations have also been used; for example, Vossen et al. (2001) survey the use of
integerprogrammingforplanning.
The jury is still out, but there are now some interesting comparisons of the various
approaches to planning. Helmert (2001) analyzes several classes of planning problems, and
showsthatconstraint-basedapproachessuchas GRAPHPLA Nand SATPLA Narebestfor NP-
hard domains, while search-based approaches do better in domains where feasible solutions
can be found without backtracking. GRAPHPLAN and SATPLAN have trouble in domains
with many objects because that means they must create many actions. In some cases the
problem can bedelayed oravoided bygenerating thepropositionalized actions dynamically,
onlyasneeded, ratherthaninstantiating themallbeforethesearchbegins.
Readings in Planning (Allen et al., 1990) is a comprehensive anthology of early work
in the field. Weld (1994, 1999) provides two excellent surveys of planning algorithms of
the 1990s. It is interesting to see the change in the five years between the two surveys:
the first concentrates on partial-order planning, and the second introduces GRAPHPLAN and
SATPLAN. Automated Planning(Ghallabetal.,2004)isanexcellenttextbookonallaspects
of planning. La Valle s text Planning Algorithms (2006) covers both classical and stochastic
planning, withextensivecoverageofrobotmotionplanning.
Planningresearchhasbeencentralto AIsince