ntext of story understanding and began with representing everyday actions using a core set of conceptual actions and states. The CD theory represents all states and events using a small set of primitive concepts, and maps incoming natural language sentences into structures of this canonical representation. The goal was that understating statements in any natural language would result in the same representation, and as a corollary, generators for different languages could produce output in that language. The reasoning and inferences needed for understanding can then be done at canonical level, and can circumvent having to deal with a vast number of linguistic terms. We look at the basic idea behind CD theory here, and in the next chapter we will look at some knowledge structures that were built using the CD representation. The structures focus on the contexts in which events are happening, and also the relations between goals, plans and actions of an actor. The Conceptual Dependency theory describes the world in terms of four kinds of syntactic constituents. PP : Picture producers These correspond to noun phrases and stand for elements of the domain, including Actors and all inanimate objects. PA : Picture aiders These correspond broadly to adjectives, and are used to describe properties of PPs. ACT : Actions These are conceptual actions. Very often linguistic verbs stand for conceptual actions but, as we shall see, this is not always so. Further the CD theory assumes a small set of primitive ACTs that are used to compose complex actions. ACTs are carried out by actors. AA : Actions aiders These describe the properties of the ACTs and roughly correspond to adverbs. They may also be used to describe properties of events. The world is described in terms of events and states and the relations between them. Events can be either the ACTS of an actor or a change of state. The latter are called state change events. The relations between the different constituents are captur