s. The
distinction wasfirstdrawnclearlyby James Bernoulli(1654 1705).
Leibnizintroduced the classical notion ofprobability asaproportion ofenumerated,
equally probable cases,whichwasalsousedby Bernoulli, although itwasbrought topromi-
nence by Laplace (1749 1827). Thisnotion isambiguous between thefrequency interpreta-
tionandthesubjective interpretation. Thecasescanbethought tobeequally probable either
because of a natural, physical symmetry between them, or simply because we do not have
any knowledge that would lead us to consider one more probable than another. The use of
this latter, subjective consideration to justify assigning equal probabilities is known as the
PRINCIPLEOF principle ofindifference. Theprinciple is often attributed to Laplace, but he neverisolated
INDIFFERENCE
the principle explicitly. George Boole and John Venn both referred to it as the principle of
PRINCIPLEOF
insufficientreason;themodernnameisdueto Keynes(1921).
INSUFFICIENT
REASON
The debate between objectivists and subjectivists became sharper in the 20th century.
Kolmogorov (1963), R. A. Fisher (1922), and Richard von Mises (1928) were advocates of
therelativefrequencyinterpretation. Karl Popper s(1959,firstpublishedin Germanin1934) propensity interpretation traces relative frequencies to an underlying physical symmetry.
Frank Ramsey (1931), Bruno de Finetti (1937), R. T. Cox (1946), Leonard Savage (1954),
Richard Jeffrey (1983), and E. T. Jaynes (2003) interpreted probabilities as the degrees of
belief of specific individuals. Their analyses of degree of belief were closely tied to utili-
tiesandtobehavior specifically, tothewillingness toplacebets. Rudolf Carnap, following
Leibniz and Laplace, offered a different kind of subjective interpretation of probability not as any actual individual s degree of belief, but as the degree of belief that an idealized
individual should have in a particular proposition a, given a particular body of evidence e.
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 50