at the highest level was the game of Backgammon (Berliner, 1980). It was a time when Chess programs were making progress, but were not quite at the level of human champions. Of course, Samuel s checkers playing program (Samuel, 1959) had made an impact earlier, by demonstrating that a program could learn and play better and better. Subsequently, a program named Chinook (Schaeffer et al., 1992) (Schaeffer, 1997) did become the world champion28 in 1994. But Checkers does not evoke so much passion as do some of the other games we have been discussing. Furthermore, the authors of Chinook have announced (Chang, 2007) that the program cannot be beaten. Like the children s game of Noughts and Crosses, the game of Checkers is also now solved. Curiously, Samuel s Checkers program and the reigning Backgammon programs share the same methodology of learning from playing against themselves. Backgammon is amongst the oldest known games, reputedly being played a thousand years before Chess (Tesauro, 1995). Certainly, a similar game called Chausar2 has been described in ancient Indian literature (Handelman, 1997). A particular incident of the game from the Indian epic Mahabharata (traditionally ascribed to the sage Vyasa; many translations are available) is ingrained in the Indian psyche because it involved the gambling away of everything , eventually leading to the epic battle. Modern Backgammon is played on a board of 24 locations called points " on which two players start with 15 checkers (or pieces) as shown in Figure 8.42. The 24 points are partitioned into four quadrants as shown in the figure. The objective of the game is to bring one s checkers to one s home quadrant, and then move, or bear, them off the board. The moves are dictated by a pair of dice. For example, the dice in the figure show 4 and 1, and this means that the player can move one checker 4 steps and another, possibly the same one, 1 step. Every move can only be made to an open point that contains one or zero 