bstituting valuesforallthevariables:
Action(Fly(P ,SFO,JFK),
1
PRECOND:At(P
1
,SFO) Plane(P
1
) Airport(SFO) Airport(JFK)
EFFECT: At(P
1
,SFO) At(P
1
,JFK))
Theprecondition andeffectofanactionareeachconjunctions ofliterals(positiveornegated
atomic sentences). The precondition defines the states in which the action can be executed,
andtheeffect definestheresult ofexecuting theaction. Anaction acan beexecuted instate
sifsentails theprecondition of a. Entailment can also beexpressed withthe setsemantics:
s q iff every positive literal in q is in s and every negated literal in q is not. In formal
notation wesay
(a ACTIONS(s)) s PRECOND(a),
whereanyvariables in aareuniversally quantified. Forexample, p,from,to (Fly(p,from,to) ACTIONS(s)) s (At(p,from) Plane(p) Airport(from) Airport(to))
We say that action a is applicable in state s if the preconditions are satisfied by s. When
APPLICABLE
an action schema a contains variables, it may have multiple applicable instantiations. For
example, with the initial state defined in Figure 10.1, the Fly action can be instantiated as
Fly(P ,SFO,JFK) or as Fly(P ,JFK,SFO), both of which are applicable in the initial
1 2
state. Ifanactionahasvvariables,then,inadomainwithkuniquenamesofobjects,ittakes
O(vk)timeintheworstcasetofindtheapplicable groundactions.
Sometimeswewanttopropositionalizea PDD Lproblem replaceeachactionschema
PROPOSITIONALIZE
with a set of ground actions and then use apropositional solver such as SATPLAN to find a
solution. However,thisisimpractical whenv andk arelarge.
(cid:2)
The result of executing action a in state s is defined as a state s which is represented
by the set of fluents formed by starting with s, removing the fluents that appear as negative
DELETELIST
literalsintheaction s effects(whatwecallthedeletelistor DEL(a)),andaddingthefluents
ADDLIST
thatarepositiveliteralsintheaction s effects(whatwecalltheaddlistor ADD(a)):
RESULT(s,a) (s DEL(a)) ADD(a). (10.1)
Forexample, withtheaction Fly(P ,SFO,JFK),wewould