
theoriginalcolorshowingthrough.
Intherealworld,agentsuseacombinationofapproaches. Carmanufacturerssellspare
tires and air bags, which are physical embodiments of contingent plan branches designed
to handle punctures or crashes. On the other hand, most car drivers never consider these
possibilities; when a problem arises they respond as replanning agents. In general, agents
plan only for contingencies that have important consequences and a nonnegligible chance
of happening. Thus, a car driver contemplating a trip across the Sahara desert should make
explicit contingency plans for breakdowns, whereas a trip to the supermarket requires less
advanceplanning. Wenextlookateachofthethreeapproaches inmoredetail.
11.3.1 Sensorless planning
Section 4.4.1 (page 138) introduced the basic idea of searching in belief-state space to find
asolution forsensorless problems. Conversion ofasensorless planning problem to abelief-
state planning problem works muchthe samewayasit didin Section 4.4.1; the maindiffer-
encesarethattheunderlyingphysicaltransitionmodelisrepresentedbyacollectionofaction
schemas and the belief state can be represented by a logical formula instead of an explicitly
enumerated set of states. Forsimplicity, weassume that the underlying planning problem is
deterministic.
The initial belief state for the sensorless painting problem can ignore In View fluents
because the agent has no sensors. Furthermore, we take as given the unchanging facts
Object(Table) Object(Chair) Can(C ) Can(C ) because these hold in every be-
1 2
lief state. The agent doesn t know the colors of the cans or the objects, or whether the cans
areopenorclosed, butitdoesknowthatobjects andcanshave colors: x c Color(x,c).
After Skolemizing, (see Section9.5),weobtaintheinitial beliefstate:
b Color(x,C(x)).
0
In classical planning, where the closed-world assumption is made, we would assume that
any fluentnot mentioned inastate is false, but in sensorless (and partially observable) plan-
ning we have to