 N 1 samples uniformly from among those locations. As usual, it is
perfectly acceptable if morethan one sample is generated forany of the locations X. Let Z
bea Booleansensorvariable characterized bythefollowing conditional probabilities:
P(z x ) 0.8 P( z x ) 0.2
1 1
P(z x ) 0.4 P( z x ) 0.6
2 2
P(z x ) 0.1 P( z x ) 0.9
3 3
P(z x ) 0.1 P( z x ) 0.9.
4 4
Exercises 1015
B
A A
B
Starting configuration 0.5, 7 Ending configuration 0.5, 7 Figure25.31 ARobotmanipulatorintwoofitspossibleconfigurations.
MC Lusestheseprobabilitiestogenerateparticleweights,whicharesubsequentlynormalized
and used in the resampling process. Forsimplicity, let us assume wegenerate only one new
sample in the resampling process, regardless of N. This sample might correspond to any of
thefourlocationsin X. Thus,thesamplingprocessdefinesaprobabilitydistributionover X.
a. Whatistheresulting probability distribution over X forthisnewsample? Answerthis
questionseparately for N 1,...,10,andfor N .
b. Thedifference between twoprobability distributions P and Q can be measured by the
KLdivergence, whichisdefinedas
(cid:12)
P(x )
i
KL(P,Q) P(x )log .
i
Q(x )
i
i
Whatarethe KLdivergences betweenthedistributions in(a)andthetrueposterior?
c. What modification of the problem formulation (not the algorithm!) would guarantee
that the specific estimator above is unbiased even for finite values of N? Provide at
leasttwosuchmodifications (eachofwhichshouldbesufficient).
25.2 Implement Monte Carlolocalization forasimulated robot withrange sensors. Agrid
map and range data are available from the code repository at aima.cs.berkeley.edu.
Youshoulddemonstrate successful globallocalization oftherobot.
25.3 Considerarobotwithtwosimplemanipulators,asshowninfigure25.31. Manipulator
A is a square block of side 2 which can slide back and on a rod that runs along the x-axis
from x 10 to x 10. Manipulator B is a square block of side 2 which can slide back and
on a rod that runs along the y-axis from y 10 to y 10. The rods lie out