g with def or 17. semantics of logic defines the meaning of statements and determines when they are true. But another route to the truth values of statements, via a proof. This is of great importance, because that is independent of meaning. It is entirely syntactic in nature. An important consequence of this is programs to generate proofs, without having to worry about the computer knowing the meanit it is manipulating. It is necessary to build proof procedures that are sound to guarantee that the s 1 by the proof procedure are true. A related property of a logic machine (system) is whether it is c 2ness means that all true statements that can be expressed in the language will have proofs. york of Frege, Russell, Hilbert and G del resulted in the development of proof systems. This was ext Gentzen (1909-1945) who devised the natural deduction system and the sequent calculus. Logic in Ancient Greece otion of formal logic that evolved in Europe can be traced back to Aristotle (384-322 Bc), who was 427-347 Bc)'2, who himself was a disciple of Socrates (469-399 Bc). Aristotle made significant con! ohysics, natural history, psychology and philosophy. The roots of western rationalism can be trace atic method (or Method of Elenchus) in which one examines the possible counterpoints to one s th ' questions and eliminates them to arrive at the conclusion. The method was described in a s; known as the Socratic dialogues written by Plato and Xenophon (431-355 Bc). The dialogues a liscussions between Socrates and other persons of his time, or as discussions between Socrates concepts. Plato s Phaedo is an example of this latter category (see for example (Plato and Fowler, 15 ormalization of the reasoning process is described in Aristotle s Organon (meaning Instrument). The ne given by Aristotle s followers, the Peripatetics, to the standard collection of his six works on logic Categories: Aristotle s 10-fold classification of that which exists. These categories consist of st intit