. Since R is a relation it can be characterized with relational properties such, as reflexivity, transitivity, symmetry, and equivalence. Thus for any w,,w.w'E W, the following properties are defined. Reflexive. R is reflexive if (w,.w,) E R for each w E W. In other words, all worlds are possible with respect to themselves. 94 Dealing with Inconsistencies and Uncertainties Chap. 5 Transitive. R is transitive if when (w1.w) ER. and (w1.w ) ER then (w,.wk) E R. If w is accessible from w and wk is accessible from w1. then w is accessible from w,. Symmetric. R is symmetric if when (w1..) E R then (w,.w,) E R. if w is accessible from w,, then w is accessible from w,. Equivalence. R is an equivalence relation if R is reflexive, transitive, and symmetric. These properties can also be described pictorially as illustrated in Figure 5.5. Modal Operators and Logics As suggested above, different operators are used to obtain different modalities. We begin with the standard definitions of a traditional logic, say P1, and introduce appropriate operators and, as appropriate, introduce certain axioms. For example, to define one first order modal logic we designate as L,, the operators L and M noted above would be included. We also add a necessity axiom which states that if the proposition P is a logical axiom then infer LP (that is, if P is universally valid, it is necessary that P is true). We also define LP = MP or it is. necessary that P is true as equivalent to it is not possible that P is not true. Different modal logics can be obtained from LLM by adding different axioms. Some axioms can also be related to the accessibility relations. Thus, for example, we can say that If R is reflexive, add LP -. P. In other words, if it is necessary that P is true in w,. then P is true in w,. If R is transitive, add LP - LLP. This states that if P is true in all w, accessible from some iv,, then P is true in all wk accessible from iv,. LIi-t III LJ A.flexive Transitive Synwnetric Equivalenc.