ning. Programs in other languages can also be called from Rulemaster. One of the unique features of Rutemaster is the Rulemaker component which has the ability to induce rules from examples. Experts are known to have difficulty in directly expressing rules related to their decision processes. On the other hand, they can usually come up with a wealth of examples in which they describe typical solution steps. The examples provided by the expert offer a more accurate wa's in ,cti,.ri ti Ie Ruleujake, User r.jc1ia F !y5 rc(pd Rulernaste, by njto,naker utitites Assebje, Expert system of hierarchical radial dulea - '-S.- Comptetiori ---ptxcer,;A n,c-rams - IPrr,.jscor,tro I Ro,s Ftgtire 15.13 Rutetiiutcr hutk Jin e,1uprflert Darabasc system. Sec. 15.6 Knowledge System Building Tools 353 which the problem solving process is carried out. These examples are transformed into rules by Rulemaker through an induction process. KEE (Knowledge Engineering Environment) KEE is one of the more popular building tools for the development of larger-scale systems. Developed by lntellicorp, this system employs sophisticated representation schemes structured around frames called units. The frames are made up of slots and facets which contain object, attribute values, rules, methods, logical assertions, text, or even other frames. The frames are organized into one or more knowledge bases in the form of hierarchical structures which permit multiple inheritance down hierarchical paths. Rules, procedures, and object oriented representation methods are also supported. Inference is carried out through inheritance, forward-chaining, backward-chaining, or a mixture of these methods. A form of hypothetical reasoning is also provided through different viewpoints which may be explored concurrently. The viewpoints represent different aspects of a situation, views of the same situation taken at different times, hypothetical Situations, or alternative courses of action. This feature permits a user to com