n {1, 0, -1} obtained Fig. 23.3. GA run for the I/O table generalization problem 463 464 Artificial Intelligence Note that the maximum fitness value from one generation to another is constantly increasing. This also leads to a corresponding increase in the average fitness value. 23.2.3. Problem III Optimization with constraints: Skill based Employee Allocation Here we look into a real world problem with some practical results. Resource allocation is one of the top challenges in project management. The decision regarding which employee or resource should be allocated to which project can affect the overall working efficiency of the employees as well as the throughput of the project. A project manager has to invariably take into consideration a large number of problems caused due to the effect of different constraints such as skills of the available employees, the budget of the project, etc. Given a situation it is difficult to deduce whether or not an allocation is the most optimal one. The project manager has to cope up with all the issues and complexities associated with combinatorial optimization problems. A GA can resolve this problem to a great extent. The major objectives of the allocation are: 1. Allocate employees (resources) having the skill ratings closest to that required by the projects. 2. Uniform distribution of employees among the projects. 3. Given the budget, maximize the profit. 4. Consider the preferences of the employees. The skills could be graded from 1 to 5, where the knowledge of the skill increases as the grade. In the complete absence of the skill the rating is set to zero. Each project, as also each employee is assigned a skill rating for the various skills. For a project the rating signifies the minimum knowledge level of the skill required. For example a project for creating a database application requires high levels (say Skill rating 5) of database skills (like Oracle) while low knowledge of C language (say Skill rating 1). For an emplo