uristic reasoning can be accomplished within the theory of conceptual graphs. In summary, conceptual graphs offer the means to represent natural language statements accurately and to perform many forms of .inference found in common sense reasoning. 7.3 FRAME STRUCTURES. Frames were first introduced by Marvin Minsky (1975) as a data structure to represent a mental model of a stereotypical situation such as driving a car, attending a meeting, or eating in a restaurant. Knowledge about an object or event is stored together in memory as a unit. Then, when a new situation is encountered, an appropriate frame is selected from memory for use in reasoning about the situation. Frames are general record-like structures which Consist of a collection of slots and slot values. The slots may be of any size and type. Slots typically have names and values or subfields called facets. Facets may also have names and any number of values. An example of a simple frame for Bob is depicted in Figure 7.6 and a general frame template structure is illustrated in Figure 7.7. From Figure 7.7 it will be seen that a frame may have any number of slots. and a slot may have any number of facets, each with any number of values. This gives a very general framework from which to build a variety of knowledge structures. The slots in a frame specify general or specific characteristics of the entity for which the frame represents, and sometimes they include instructions on how to apply or use the slot values. Typically, a slot Contains information such as attribute value pairs, default values, conditions for filling a slot, pointers to other related tramcs, and procedures that are activated when needed for. different purposes. For example, the Ford frame illustrated in Figure 7.8 has attribute-value slots (COLOR: silver, MODEL: 4-door, and the like), a slot which takes default values.for GASMILEAGE and a slot with an attached /needed procedure. (bob (PROFESSION (VALUE professor)) (AGE (VALUE 42)) (WIFE (