he chapter on games can come earlier in the book. In fact, this is the case in the introductory course teach on Al, and it does lead to a programming assignment that can be given early writing game playing programs that participate in a course tournament with marks being earned by the programs that students find quite exciting. The following contents could form a one-semester course. Chapters 1-4. Chapter 5 up to 5.7, Chapter 7, Chapter 8 up to 8.2, Section 1 from Chapter 10, Chapters 11-12, Chapter 16 and some parts of Chapter 18. A three-semester course would do more justice to the subject and could be as follows. Semester 1. Problem solving using search. Chapters 1-4. Chapter 5 up to 5.7, Chapter 6-9, Section 1 from Chapter 10, Chapter 12. Semester 2. Knowledge representation and reasoning. Chapter 11, review of Chapter 12, Chapter 6, Chapter 13 up to Section 5, Chapter 14 up to Section 7, Chapter 15. Semester 3. Natural language processing, handling uncertainty, and machine learning. Chapters 16-18. A two-semester course could cut down on some material from the second semester of the three-semester syllabus, and add some from the third. Online Learning Center The Online Learning Center is accessible at http: www.mhhe.com khemani ai and contains Wiki page for programs PowerPoint slides of the chapters Solution Manual with pointers Web links to additional reading A Final Word The proof of the pudding is in the eating. Learning artificial intelligence has to be reflected in the implementation of programs that embody the algorithms written in the book. The algorithms have deliberately not been written in a programming language. One reason for this is that this allows us to abstract away from a programming language and focus on the algorithms. Another is that the algorithms are indeed independent of the language they can be implemented in. While someone might like to use a language like Lisp or Haskell, other readers might prefer C, C , Python or Java. We leave the c