competitive environments, randomizedbehaviorisrational because
itavoids thepitfallsofpredictability.
Deterministic vs. stochastic. If the next state of the environment is completely deter-
DETERMINISTIC
minedbythecurrentstateandtheactionexecutedbytheagent,thenwesaytheenvironment
STOCHASTIC
isdeterministic;otherwise,itisstochastic. Inprinciple,anagentneednotworryaboutuncer-
tainty in a fully observable, deterministic environment. (In our definition, we ignore uncer-
tainty that arises purely from the actions of other agents in a multiagent environment; thus,
a game can be deterministic even though each agent may be unable to predict the actions of
the others.) If the environment is partially observable, however, then it could appear to be
stochastic. Most real situations are so complex that it is impossible to keep track of all the
unobserved aspects;forpracticalpurposes, theymustbetreatedasstochastic. Taxidrivingis
clearly stochastic inthissense, because one canneverpredict thebehavior oftrafficexactly;
moreover, one s tires blow out and one s engine seizes up without warning. The vacuum
worldaswedescribed itisdeterministic, butvariations caninclude stochastic elementssuch
asrandomly appearing dirtandanunreliable suction mechanism (Exercise 2.13). Wesayan
environment is uncertain if it is not fully observable or not deterministic. One final note:
UNCERTAIN
our use of the word stochastic generally implies that uncertainty about outcomes is quan-
tified in terms of probabilities; a nondeterministic environment is one in which actions are
NONDETERMINISTIC
characterized by their possible outcomes, but no probabilities are attached to them. Nonde-
terministic environment descriptions are usually associated with performance measures that
requiretheagenttosucceed forallpossible outcomesofitsactions.
Episodic vs. sequential: In an episodic task environment, the agent s experience is
EPISODIC
dividedintoatomicepisodes. Ineachepisodetheagentreceivesaperceptandthenperforms
SEQ