rovides the appropriate setting for most of the foundational material in
LIMITED the field. Chapters 5 and 17 deal explicitly with the issue of limited rationality acting
RATIONALITY
appropriately whenthereisnotenoughtimetodoallthecomputations onemightlike.
1.2 THE FOUNDATIONS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Inthissection,weprovideabriefhistoryofthedisciplinesthatcontributedideas,viewpoints,
and techniques to AI. Like any history, this one is forced to concentrate on a small number
of people, events, and ideas and to ignore others that also were important. We organize the
history aroundaseriesofquestions. Wecertainly wouldnot wishtogivetheimpression that
these questions arethe only ones the disciplines address or that the disciplines have allbeen
workingtoward AIastheirultimatefruition.
1.2.1 Philosophy Canformalrulesbeusedtodrawvalidconclusions? Howdoesthemindarisefromaphysical brain? Wheredoesknowledgecomefrom? Howdoesknowledgeleadtoaction?
Aristotle (384 322 B.C.), whose bust appears on the front cover of this book, was the first
to formulate a precise set of laws governing the rational part of the mind. He developed an
informalsystemofsyllogismsforproperreasoning, whichinprincipleallowedonetogener-
ate conclusions mechanically, given initial premises. Much later, Ramon Lull (d. 1315) had
theideathatuseful reasoning couldactually becarried out byamechanical artifact. Thomas
Hobbes (1588 1679) proposed thatreasoning waslike numerical computation, that weadd
and subtract in our silent thoughts. The automation of computation itself was already well
under way. Around 1500, Leonardo da Vinci (1452 1519) designed but did not build a me-
chanical calculator; recent reconstructions have shown the design to be functional. Thefirst
known calculating machine was constructed around 1623 by the German scientist Wilhelm
Schickard (1592 1635), although the Pascaline, builtin1642by Blaise Pascal(1623 1662),
6 Chapter 1. Introduction
is more famous. Pascal wrote that the arithmetical 