atsareeateninahousenexttothehousewherethehorseiskept.
Coffeeisdrunkinthegreenhouse.
Milkisdrunkinthemiddlehouse.
Discussdifferent representations ofthisproblem asa CSP. Whywouldonepreferonerepre-
sentation overanother?
6.8 Consider the graph with 8 nodes A , A , A , A , H, T, F , F . A is connected to
1 2 3 4 1 2 i
A for all i, each A is connected to H, H is connected to T, and T is connected to each
i 1 i
F . Find a 3-coloring of this graph by hand using the following strategy: backtracking with
i
conflict-directed backjumping, the variable order A , H, A , F , A , F , A , T, and the
1 4 1 2 2 3
valueorder R,G,B.
6.9 Explainwhyitisagoodheuristictochoosethevariablethatismostconstrainedbutthe
valuethatisleastconstraining ina CS Psearch.
6.10 Generate random instances of map-coloring problems as follows: scatter n points on
theunit square; select apoint X atrandom, connect X byastraight linetothenearest point
Y such that X is not already connected to Y and the line crosses no other line; repeat the
previous step until no more connections are possible. The points represent regions on the
map and the lines connect neighbors. Now try to find k-colorings of each map, for both
k 3andk 4,usingmin-conflicts, backtracking, backtracking withforwardchecking, and
backtracking with MAC.Constructatableofaverageruntimesforeachalgorithmforvalues
ofnuptothelargestyoucanmanage. Commentonyourresults.
6.11 Use the AC-3 algorithm to show that arc consistency can detect the inconsistency of
thepartialassignment WA green,V red fortheproblem shownin Figure6.1.
6.12 Whatistheworst-casecomplexity ofrunning AC-3onatree-structured CSP?
6.13 AC-3 puts back on the queue every arc (X ,X ) whenever any value is deleted from
k i
thedomainof X ,evenifeachvalueof X isconsistentwithseveralremainingvaluesof X .
i k i
Supposethat,foreveryarc(X ,X ),wekeeptrackofthenumberofremainingvaluesof X
k i i
that are consistent with each value of X . Explain how to update these numbers efficiently
k
andhenceshowtha