n
that is the value of the function F applied to d ,...,d . Forexample, suppose the Left Leg
1 n
functionsymbolreferstothefunctionshownin Equation(8.2)and John refersto King John,
then Left Leg(John) refers to King John s left leg. In this way, the interpretation fixes the
referentofeveryterm.
8.2.4 Atomicsentences
Now that we have both terms for referring to objects and predicate symbols for referring to
relations, we can put them together to make atomic sentences that state facts. An atomic
5 -expressions provide a useful notation in which new function symbols are constructed on the fly. For
example, thefunctionthatsquaresitsargumentcanbewrittenas( x x x)andcanbeappliedtoarguments
justlikeanyotherfunctionsymbol. A -expressioncanalsobedefinedandusedasapredicatesymbol. (See
Chapter22.)Thelambdaoperatorin Lispplaysexactlythesamerole.Noticethattheuseof inthiswaydoes
notincreasetheformalexpressivepoweroffirst-orderlogic,becauseanysentencethatincludesa -expression
canberewrittenby pluggingin itsargumentstoyieldanequivalentsentence.
Section8.2. Syntaxand Semanticsof First-Order Logic 295
sentence (or atom for short) is formed from a predicate symbol optionally followed by a
ATOMICSENTENCE
parenthesized listofterms,suchas
ATOM
Brother(Richard,John).
This states, under the intended interpretation given earlier, that Richard the Lionheart is the
brotherof King John.6 Atomicsentences canhavecomplextermsasarguments. Thus,
Married(Father(Richard),Mother(John))
states that Richard the Lionheart s father is married to King John s mother (again, under a
suitable interpretation).
Anatomic sentence is true in agiven model if the relation referred to by the predicate
symbolholdsamongtheobjectsreferredtobythearguments.
8.2.5 Complex sentences
We can use logical connectives to construct more complex sentences, with the same syntax
andsemanticsasinpropositional calculus. Herearefoursentences thataretrueinthemodel
of Figure8.2underourintendedinterpretation: Brother(Left Leg(Richard),Joh