ath Robinsonwasacartoonistfamousforhisdepictionsofwhimsicalandabsurdlycomplicatedcontrap-
tionsforeverydaytaskssuchasbutteringtoast.
9 Inthepostwarperiod, Turingwantedtousethesecomputers for AIresearch forexample, oneofthefirst
chessprograms(Turingetal.,1953).Hiseffortswereblockedbythe Britishgovernment.
Section1.2. The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence 15
1.2.7 Control theory andcybernetics Howcanartifactsoperate undertheirowncontrol?
Ktesibios of Alexandria (c. 250 B.C.) built the first self-controlling machine: a water clock
with a regulator that maintained a constant flow rate. This invention changed the definition
of what an artifact could do. Previously, only living things could modify their behavior in
response to changes inthe environment. Otherexamples of self-regulating feedback control
systems include the steam engine governor, created by James Watt (1736 1819), and the
thermostat, invented by Cornelis Drebbel (1572 1633), who also invented the submarine.
Themathematical theoryofstablefeedback systemswasdevelopedinthe19thcentury.
The central figure in the creation of what is now called control theory was Norbert
CONTROLTHEORY
Wiener(1894 1964). Wienerwasabrilliant mathematician whoworkedwith Bertrand Rus-
sell,amongothers,beforedevelopinganinterestinbiologicalandmechanicalcontrolsystems
andtheirconnectiontocognition. Like Craik(whoalsousedcontrolsystemsaspsychological
models), Wiener and his colleagues Arturo Rosenblueth and Julian Bigelow challenged the
behaviorist orthodoxy (Rosenblueth et al., 1943). They viewed purposive behavior as aris-
ingfromaregulatorymechanismtryingtominimize error thedifferencebetweencurrent
state and goal state. In the late 1940s, Wiener, along with Warren Mc Culloch, Walter Pitts,
and John von Neumann, organized a series of influential conferences that explored the new
mathematicalandcomputational modelsofcognition. Wiener sbook Cybernetics(1948)be-
CYBERNETICS
came a bestseller and awoke the public to the possibility of