t aprobability modelis
completelydeterminedbythejointdistributionforalloftherandomvariables theso-called
FULLJOINT full joint probability distribution. For example, if the variables are Cavity, Toothache,
PROBABILITY
DISTRIBUTION
and Weather, then the full joint distribution is given by P(Cavity,Toothache,Weather).
Thisjoint distribution canberepresented asa 2 2 4tablewith16entries. Because every
proposition s probability is a sum over possible worlds, a full joint distribution suffices, in
principle, forcalculating theprobability ofanyproposition.
13.2.3 Probabilityaxiomsand theirreasonableness
The basic axioms of probability (Equations (13.1) and (13.2)) imply certain relationships
amongthedegreesofbeliefthatcanbeaccordedtologically relatedpropositions. Forexam-
ple, wecan derive the familiar relationship between the probability of a proposition and the
probability ofitsnegation:
(cid:2)
P( a) P( ) by Equation(13.2)
(cid:2) a (cid:2) (cid:2) P( ) P( ) P( )
(cid:2) a (cid:2) a a P( ) P( ) grouping thefirsttwoterms a 1 P(a) by(13.1)and(13.2).
Section13.2. Basic Probability Notation 489
We can also derive the well-known formula for the probability of a disjunction, sometimes
INCLUSION calledtheinclusion exclusion principle:
EXCLUSION
PRINCIPLE
P(a b) P(a) P(b) P(a b). (13.4)
Thisruleiseasilyrememberedbynotingthatthecaseswhereaholds,togetherwiththecases
where b holds, certainly cover all the cases where a b holds; but summing the two sets of
casescountstheirintersection twice,soweneedtosubtract P(a b). Theproofisleftasan
exercise(Exercise13.6).
KOLMOGOROV S Equations(13.1)and(13.4)areoftencalled Kolmogorov saxiomsinhonorofthe Rus-
AXIOMS
sianmathematician Andrei Kolmogorov, whoshowedhowtobuilduptherestofprobability
theory from this simple foundation and how to handle the difficulties caused by continuous
variables.2 While Equation (13.2) has a definitional flavor, Equation (13.4) reveals that the
axioms really do constrain the degrees of belief an agent can have conce