 toswarmsofpenguins in Batman Returns. The NERO gameandthemeth-
odsforlearningstrategies aredescribed by Bryantand Miikkulainen (2007).
Recent book on multiagent systems include those by Weiss (2000a), Young (2004),
Vlassis (2008), and Shoham and Leyton-Brown (2009). There is an annual conference on
autonomous agentsandmultiagent systems(AAMAS).
EXERCISES
11.1 Thegoals wehave considered sofarall ask the planner to make the world satisfy the
goal at just one time step. Not all goals can be expressed this way: you do not achieve the
goal of suspending a chandelier above the ground by throwing it in the air. More seriously,
you wouldn t want your spacecraft life-support system to supply oxygen one day but not
the next. A maintenance goal is achieved when the agent s plan causes a condition to hold
continuouslyfromagivenstateonward. Describehowtoextendtheformalismofthischapter
tosupport maintenance goals.
11.2 You have a number of trucks with which to deliver a set of packages. Each package
startsatsomelocationonagridmap,andhasadestinationsomewhereelse. Eachtruckisdi-
rectlycontrolled bymovingforwardandturning. Construct ahierarchy ofhigh-level actions
forthisproblem. Whatknowledge aboutthesolution doesyourhierarchyencode?
11.3 Suppose that a high-level action has exactly one implementation as a sequence of
primitive actions. Give an algorithm for computing its preconditions and effects, given the
completerefinementhierarchyandschemasfortheprimitive actions.
11.4 Suppose thatthe optimistic reachable set ofahigh-level plan isasuperset ofthegoal
set; can anything be concluded about whether the plan achieves the goal? What if the pes-
simisticreachable setdoesn t intersect thegoalset? Explain.
11.5 Writeanalgorithmthattakesaninitialstate(specifiedbyasetofpropositionalliterals)
and a sequence of HL As (each defined by preconditions and angelic specifications of opti-
mistic and pessimistic reachable sets) and computes optimistic and pessimistic descriptions
ofthereachable s