ions within the antibody molecule a highly variable region and a Constant comparatively rigid constant region. The variable or the regions V-region is the one that is responsible for antigenic recognition. The constant or C-region aids in a variety of Fig. 24.4 B-Cell Receptor 484 Artificial Intelligence effector functions during the antigenic recognition process. The polypeptide chains of an antibody are coded in multiple gene segments along a chromosome of the genome . An antibody is a molecule formed out of these scattered segments. Furthermore the gene segments comprising the antibody molecule can undergo somatic hypermutation resulting in high diversity of the genetic information. Such a mutation allows for editing and adapting of the antigenic receptors of the cell in a manner that enhances the rate of recognition of the antigen. 24.6.2 T-cell Receptor (TCR) Four polypeptide chains are used to form two types of T-cell receptors. Each type of receptor uses a pair of these four chains. The two chains are bridged to form the receptor as shown in Fig. 24.5. The patterns generated by the receptor are similar to those of the antibodies. While the BCR has two binding sites the TCR has only one. The T-cells, unlike B-cells wherein the BCR is a molecule on the surface, require co-stimulatory signals in addition to the T-Cell binding with the antigen. Fig. 24.5 A T-Cell Receptor Variable Constant 24.7 CLONAL SELECTION When the receptor recognizes the shape of an epitope, an antigen is detected. However the number of such cells with the exact match for the detected epitope may be insufficient to attack and contain the invaders. To compensate this, an activated lymphocyte proliferates and differentiates to form numerous effector cells. Clonal expansion is the process by which only those cells that recognize the antigenic material proliferate and differentiate to augment the attack. Both Tand B-cells undergo clonal expansion but in different ways. T-cells secrete lymphokin