t to two or more obstacles. To do path plan-
ning with a Voronoi graph, the robot first changes its present configuration to a point on the
Voronoi graph. It is easy to show that this can always be achieved by a straight-line motion
inconfiguration space. Second,therobotfollowsthe Voronoigraphuntilitreachesthepoint
nearest to the target configuration. Finally, the robot leaves the Voronoi graph and moves to
thetarget. Again,thisfinalstepinvolves straight-line motioninconfiguration space.
992 Chapter 25. Robotics
start goal
(a) (b)
Figure 25.17 (a) A repelling potential field pushes the robot away from obstacles. (b)
Pathfoundbysimultaneouslyminimizingpathlengthandthepotential.
(a) (b)
Figure25.18 (a)The Voronoigraphisthesetofpointsequidistanttotwoormoreobsta-
clesinconfigurationspace. (b)Aprobabilisticroadmap,composedof400randomlychosen
pointsinfreespace.
In this way, the original path-planning problem is reduced to finding a path on the
Voronoi graph, which is generally one-dimensional (except in certain nongeneric cases) and
hasfinitelymanypointswherethreeormoreone-dimensional curvesintersect. Thus,finding
Section25.5. Planning Uncertain Movements 993
the shortest path along the Voronoi graph is a discrete graph-search problem of the kind
discussed in Chapters 3 and 4. Following the Voronoi graph may not give us the shortest
path, but the resulting paths tend to maximize clearance. Disadvantages of Voronoi graph
techniquesarethattheyaredifficulttoapplytohigher-dimensional configurationspaces,and
that they tend to induce unnecessarily large detours when the configuration space is wide
open. Furthermore,computingthe Voronoigraphcanbedifficult,especially inconfiguration
space,wheretheshapesofobstacles canbecomplex.
PROBABILISTIC An alternative to the Voronoi graphs is the probabilistic roadmap, a skeletonization
ROADMAP
approach that offers morepossible routes, andthus deals betterwithwide-open spaces. Fig-
ure25.18(b)showsanexampleofaprobabilisticroadmap. Thegraphis