nding knowledge base would be a Married(Johri) ~Married(Mary) If we now ask about Jane, the CWA will yield the result ~Married(Jane). Circumscription Although the CWA captures part of the idea that anything that must not necessarily be true should be assutned to be false, it does not capture all of it. It has two essential limitations: It operates on individual predicates without considering the interactions ainong predicates that are defined in the knowledge hase. We saw an example of this above when we considered the statemerit Al Joe) \/ BUJoe). It assumes that all predicates have all of their instances listed, ARhough in many database applications this is true, in many knowledge-based systems it is not. Some predicates can reasonably be assumed to Symbolic Reasoning Under Uncertainty 157 RRA AACA ORIEN EESTI be completely defined (i.c., the part + she world they describe is closed), but others cannot (i.e., the part of the world they describe is open). For example, the predicate has-a-green-shirt should probably be considered open since in most situations it would not be safe to assume that one has been told all the details of everyone else s wardrobe. Several theories of circumscription (e.g., Mc Carthy [1980}, Mc Carthy [1986], and Lifschitz [1985]) have been proposed to deal with these problems. In all of these theories, new axioms are added to the existing knowledge base. The effect of these axioms is to force a minimal interpretation on a selected portion of the knowledge base. In particular, each specific axiom describes a way that the set of values for which a particular axiom of the original theory is true is to be delimited (i-e.. circumscribed). As an example, suppose we have the simple assertion Wa: Adult(x) \ w AB(x, aspect!) Literate(x) We would like to circumscribe AB, since we would like it to apply only to those individuals to which it applies. In essence, what we want to do is to say something about what the predicate AB must be (since at this p