 water jug, this is not very difficult. The problems are artificial and highly structured. For other problems, particularly naturallyoccurring ones, this step is much more difficult. Consider, for example, the task of specifying precisely what it means to understand an English sentence, Although such a specification must somehow be provided before we can design a program to solve the problem, producing such a specification is itself a very hard problem. Although our ultimate goal is to be able to solve difficult, unstructured problems, such as natural language understanding, it is useful to explore simpler problems, such as the water jug problem, in order to gain insight into the details of methods that can form the basis for solutions to the harder problems. Summarizing what we have just said, in order to provide a formal description of a problem, we must do the following: 1. Define a state space that contains all the possible configurations of the relevant objects (and perhaps some impossible ones). It is, of course, possible to define this space without explicitly enumerating all of the states it contains. 30 Artificial Intelligence RN IRL IR NNN NEN RINE 2. Specify one or more states within that space that describe possible situations from which the problemsolving process may start. These states are called the initial states. 3. Specify one or more states that would be acceptable as solutions to the problem. These states are called goal states, 4. Specify a set of rules that describe the actions (operators) available. Doing this will require giving thought to the following issues: What unstated assumptions are present in the informat problem description? @ How general should the rules be? How much of the work required to solve the problem should be precomputed and represented in the tules? The problem can then be solved by using the rules, in combination with an appropriate control strategy, to move through the problem space until a path from an initial state to