ion or the nege on. Since the structure of the formula in CNF is known, it is also conventionally represented as a s S. F D44, D4a, ..-,D14(4) , D21, D22, --,Dox(2) s- - Dnt, Dna, --- Dakimt ormula in propositional logic may be converted into CNF by the use of substitution rules base cal equivalences. Conversion into CNF generally results in increase in the size of the formula, often tial number of clauses in the number of propositions. single rule used in the refutation method, called the resolution rule, takes two clauses that sntary literal as follows. R,VRo...VR,VQ R, V Ro... V Ry V Py V Po... V Pm the literal Q and its negation 7Q are removed and the remaining literals are combined to form a ne 2 resolvent. We will use simpler clauses of two literals for illustration but the method applies to the vell. With the smaller clause the rule becomes, alidity of the resolution rule can be established by showing that adding the resolvent does not chang s logically. That is, the sets before and after are equivalent. It suffices to show that, ((R VQ) A (Ra irh ).EddR V Q) A (P V 7Q) A (R V P)) oft as an exercise to show that the above is indeed a tautology. A consequence of this tautology is of the resolvent nrodiuced bv the resolution rule does not chanae the logical nature of the datah: quence of resolvents Ry, Ro, R3, ... culminating with . The databases at all stages are logically ec the resolution rule is sound. Po,.--, Pr P1, Po, ..., Py, Ri P; Po, wees Pry Ry,Ro P1 Po, .... Pr, R1,Ro, Ra P4, Po,..., Px, Ry, Ro, R3,...,L since the last set of clauses evaluates to false (because it contains the empty clause) the set we sta logically equivalent, also evaluates to false. Thus P;, Po, ..., Px is false. The following simple p its the resolution method in propositional logic. PropositionalResolution(S : premises in clause forn 1 while TRUE 2 do CHOOSE a new pair of clauses C, and C, 3 if no new pair exists 4 then return FAIL 5 R Resolvent(C,, Cz) if R 7 then return FALSE 