tation. Whenaspeakerpoints andsays, Look! thelistenercomes
to know that, say, Superman has finally appeared over the rooftops. Yet we would not want
to say that the sentence Look! represents that fact. Rather, the meaning of the sentence
depends both on the sentence itself and on the context in which the sentence was spoken.
Clearly, one could not store a sentence such as Look! in a knowledge base and expect to
Section8.1. Representation Revisited 287
recover its meaning without also storing a representation of the context which raises the
question of how the context itself can be represented. Natural languages also suffer from
ambiguity,aproblemforarepresentation language. As Pinker(1995)putsit: Whenpeople
AMBIGUITY
thinkaboutspring,surelytheyarenotconfusedastowhethertheyarethinkingaboutaseason
or something that goes boing and if one word can correspond to two thoughts, thoughts
can tbewords. The famous Sapir Whorf hypothesis claims that our understanding of the world is
strongly influenced bythelanguage wespeak. Whorf(1956)wrote Wecutnature up,orga-
nizeitintoconcepts, andascribe significances aswedo, largely because weareparties toan
agreement to organize it this way an agreement that holds throughout our speech commu-
nity and is codified in the patterns of our language. It is certainly true that different speech
communities divide uptheworlddifferently. The Frenchhavetwowords chaise and fau-
teuil, for a concept that English speakers cover with one: chair. But English speakers
caneasilyrecognizethecategoryfauteuilandgiveitaname roughly open-armchair so
does language really make a difference? Whorf relied mainly on intuition and speculation,
but in the intervening years we actually have real data from anthropological, psychological
andneurological studies.
Forexample,canyourememberwhichofthefollowingtwophrasesformedtheopening
of Section8.1? Inthissection, wediscussthenatureofrepresentation languages ... Thissectioncoversthetopicofknowledge representation languag