e essence of human emotions). The motivation of the work, as the name suggests, was to identify the dominant emotions and permanent emotions in the heart of every human being (Sharma, 2003). The Natyasastra identifies eight sthayibhavas or basic emotions: Rati (Love, amorous and romantic) Hasya (Mirth, the capacity to enjoy a comic situation) Soka (Sorrow, or grief, that arises due to a loss) Krodha (Anger, caused by injustice to oneself or others) Utsaha (Energy, the enthusiasm to do something) Bhaya (Terror, fear of the dangerous) Jugupsa (Disgust, repulsion) - Vismaya (Astonishment, on encountering something unusual) These eight basic emotions (sthayibhavas) are often identified themselves as the eight rasas. These stationery emotions often give rise to auxiliary fleeting emotions, sanchari bhavas, which reinforce and support the basic emotions. The expression of these sanchari bhavas by a skilled performer are experienced and absorbed by the receiver (rasika) as rasa, the essence of feeling. The rasas that can be experienced have been described as follows. Shringar Rasa Arising out of Rati, it is one of the oldest emotions known since a human being espied an attractive mate. Bharata classifies the feelings into two kinds, sanyoga shringar, love in union, and viyoga shringar, love in separation. Shringar rasa probably forms the core subject of a majority of Indian dance dramas. Hasya Rasa Is evoked by the jester s funny behaviour in a drama. It was also the rasa experienced by Draupadi in the Indian epic Mahabharata when she saw Duryeghapa;fall unto a pool of water, leading eventually to the great war. Raudra Rasa The feeling of anger arising out of krodha, was Roop ANY he emotion felt by Duryodhana when he saw Draupadi break into peals of laughter. It is a common emotion invoked in modern cinema, especially Indian cinema, when the protagonist yields to his? rage and overcomes injustice against all odds. Veer Rasa Or the heroic sentiment (in the hearts of the aud