US, a tutorial component called GUIDON, and a shell component called EMYCIN (for Essential MYC[N) EMYCIN was used to build other diagnostic systems including PUFF, a diagnostic expert for pulmonary diseases. EMYCIN also became the design model for several commercial expert system building tools. MYCIN's performance improved significantly over a several year period as additional knowledge was added. Tests indicate that MYCIN's performance now equals or exceeds that of experienced physicians. The initial MYCIN knowledge base contained about only 200 rules. This number was gradually increased to more than 600 rules by the early 1980s. The added rules significantly improved MYCIN's performance leading to a 65% success record , which compared favorably with experienced physicians who demonstrated only an average 60% success rate (Lenat, 1984). (An example of MYCIN's rules is given in Section 4.9, and the treatment of uncertain knowledge by MYCIN is described in Section 6.5.) Other early expert system projects included PROSPECTOR, a system that assists geologists in the discovery of mineral deposits, and RI (aka XCON), a system used by the Digital Equipment Corporation to select and configure components of complex computer systems. Since the introduction of these early expert systems. numerous commercial and military versions have been completed with a high degree of success. Some of these application areas are itemized below. Sec. 15.1 Introduction 329 Applications Since the introduction of these early expert systems, the range and depth of applications has broadened dramatically. Applications can now be found in almost all areas of business and government. They include such areas as Different types of medical diagnoses (internal medicine, pulmonary diseases. infectious blood diseases, and so On) Diagnosis of complex electronic and electromechanical systems Diagnosis of diesel electric locomotion systems Diagnosis of software development projects Planning experiments in 