picts abnormality with respect to chatting with friends. 3 Observe that the quantification is over a predicate. 4 Assuming that the set of predicates being circumscribed is identified. 5 Ora special interest group on a social networking site. 8 To be precise, we should also add all the tautologies of FOL to each extension because they are always entailed. 7 Inthe literature, one can also find this expressed as Ka which stands for a is known 8 We treat the word expansion in the same manner as extension used earlier. 9 Alternatively, we can say that in the stability criteria a does not contain the B operator. 10 The reader might have heard the joke about a farmer seeking help from scientists and getting a letter in return that begins with Consider a spherical cow... . 11 And the Sign scale over -, 0, is coarsest of them all. 12. http: www.cs.utexas.edu users qr QR-software.html 13 Observe that the value (0, ) is equivalent to saying it is positive. If we had a landmark value, say the velocity of sound or the escape velocity on Earth, we could have used that as well. 14 In the original U-tube diagram used by Kuipers (86; 94), the two tanks have a simple shape of uniform cross section. We use somewhat more exotic shapes only to emphasize the fact that qualitative reasoning does not need the quantitative data of volume. 15 One could eschew the Ab predicate and simply infer Multiplier(M)with the understanding that M no longer qualifies to be called a multiplier, but the use of an explicit status predicate makes it neater. As we will see, that also makes it possible to introduce fault models easily. Other works have used OK(M)to mean the same thing as Ab(M). 16 We will use the word conflict to refer to the conflict set as well. 17 In the logic based model, each set should really stand for sets of statements asserting that the corresponding components are broken. We denote those statements by identifying the components for the sake of brevity. 18 One could also think of exp