menting such a broadcast structure as a blackboard system in Section 16.3.2. One specific technique that several communicating agents can use is called the functionally acpurate, cooperative (FA/C) approach [Lesser and Corkill, 1981] to distributed problem solving. Each agent begins by forming a tentative, incomplete plan. These plans are then shared among the agents, who are able to help refine each other s plans by adding information that they possess. Ideally, the entire system converges on a complete plan. The second approach is one in which we assume that the agents cannot Q communicate This may seem to be a very serious restriction, but it is useful to c d consider it both because it does sometimes arise in the extreme (perhaps because the agents are geographically isolated) and because it often arises at small granularity levels where the cost of constant communication may come to dominate the cost of actual problem solving. P If we assume that the agents cannot communicate and that they are all rational, b then we can use many of the standard notions of game theory to describe how each of them should act. The most basic technique is that of a payoff matrix, such as the one shown in Fig. 16.1. We assume that there are only two agents, P Fig. 16.1 A Payoff Matrix and Q, and that there are only two actions that each of them can perform (a and for Two Agents b for P, and c and d for Q). Then the matrix shows the payoff for each of them for and Two Actions each of the possible joint actions. The number in the lower left of each box is the payoff for P; the number in the upper right is the payoff for Q. Each agent s goal is to maximize its own payoff. For example, P comes out best if it makes move b and Q makes move d. On the other hand, Q comes out best if P makes move a and Q makes move c. Of course, no one of the agents can force such a dual move. Each must make its own decision independently. In this case, for example, P should choose move a (rather than b, ev