links in the Internet from observations of end-to-end message performance (Castro et al.,
2004). Perhaps the most widely used Bayesian network systems have been the diagnosis-
and-repairmodules(e.g.,the Printer Wizard)in Microsoft Windows(Breeseand Heckerman,
1996) and the Office Assistant in Microsoft Office (Horvitz et al., 1998). Another impor-
tant application area is biology: Bayesian networks have been used for identifying human
genesbyreferencetomousegenes(Zhangetal.,2003),inferringcellularnetworks Friedman
(2004), and manyother tasks in bioinformatics. Wecould go on, but instead we ll refer you
to Pourret etal.(2008), a400-page guidetoapplications of Bayesiannetworks.
Ross Shachter(1986),workingintheinfluencediagramcommunity,developedthefirst
complete algorithm for general Bayesian networks. His method was based on goal-directed
reduction ofthenetworkusing posterior-preserving transformations. Pearl(1986) developed
aclusteringalgorithmforexactinferenceingeneral Bayesiannetworks,utilizingaconversion
to a directed polytree of clusters in which message passing was used to achieve consistency
over variables shared between clusters. A similar approach, developed by the statisticians
David Spiegelhalter and Steffen Lauritzen (Lauritzen and Spiegelhalter, 1988), is based on
conversion to an undirected form of graphical model called a Markov network. This ap-
MARKOVNETWORK
proach isimplemented in the HUGIN system, anefficient and widely used tool foruncertain
reasoning(Andersenetal.,1989). Boutilieretal.(1996)showhowtoexploitcontext-specific
independence inclustering algorithms.
The basic idea of variable elimination that repeated computations within the overall
sum-of-productsexpressioncanbeavoidedbycaching appearedinthesymbolicprobabilis-
tic inference (SPI)algorithm (Shachter et al., 1990). Theelimination algorithm wedescribe
is closest to that developed by Zhang and Poole (1994). Criteria for pruning irrelevant vari-
ablesweredeveloped by Geigeretal.(1990)andby 