orms the number to 011011011011011011. Clearly a representation in the proper base greatly simplifies finding the pattern solution. Sometimes, a state diagram representation will simplify solutions. For example, the Towers of Hanoi problem requires that n discs (say n = 3), each a different size, be moved from one of three pegs to a third peg without violating the rule a disc may only be stacked on top of a larger disc. Here, the States are all the possible disc-peg configurations, and a valid solution path can easily be traced from the initial state through other connected states to the goal state. Later we will study several representation schemes that have become popular among Al practitioners. Perhaps the most important of these is first order predicate logic. It has become important because it is one of the few methods that has a well-developed theory, has reasonable expressive power, and uses valid forms of inferring. Its greatest weakness is its limitation as a model for commonsense reasoning. A typical statement in this logic might express the family relationship of fatherhood as FATHERjohn, Jim) where the predicate father is used to express the fact that John is the father of Jim. Other representation schemes include frames and associative networks (also called semantic and conceptual networks), fuzzy logic, modal logics, and objectoriented methods. Frames are flexible structures that permit the grouping of closely related knowledge. For example, an object such as a ball and its properties (size, color, function) and is relationship to other objects (to the left of, on top of, and so on) are grouped together into a single structure for easy access. Networks also permit easy access to groups of related items. They associate objects with their attributes, and linkages show their relationship to other objects. Fuzzy logic is a generalization of predicate logic, developed to permit varying degrees of some property such as tall. In classical two-valued logic, TA