d. For example, there has been a substantial amount of work done in the area of real-time expert systems [Laffey et al., 1988]. For more information on the whole area of expert systems and to get a better feel for the kinds of applications that exist, look at Weiss and Kulikowski [1984], Harmon and King [1985]. Rauch-Hindin [1986], Waterman [1986], and Prerau [1990]. EXERCISES STUN DARE CAMA Qe RADING Detar are gg TWEET A BOUT HT RI NN Rh OM URRIRLA IN aa gee 1. 2. Rule-based systems often contain rules with several conditions in their left sides. (a) Why is this true in MYCIN? (b) Why is this true in RI? Contrast expert systems and neural networks (Chapter 18) in terms of knowledge representation, knowledge acquisition, and explanation. Give one domain in which the expert system approach wauld be more promising and one domain in which the neural network approach would be more promising. CHAPTER 21 PERCEPTION AND ACTION The bookful blackfead, ignorantly read, with loads of learned lumber in his head. Alexander Pope (1688-1744), English poet Tn the first chapter of this book, we proposed a definition of Al based on the nature of the problems it tackles, namely those for which humans currently outperform computers. So far, we have discussed primarily cognitive tasks, but there are many other tasks that also fall within this realm. In basic perceptual and motor skills, even lower animals possess phenomenal capabilities compared to computers. Perception involves interpreting sights, sounds, smells, and touch. Action includes the ability to navigate through the world and manipulate objects. In order to build robots that live in the world, we must come to understand these processes. Figure 21.1 shows a design for a complete autonomous robot. Most of Al is concerned only with cognition, the idea being that when intelligent programs are developed, we will simply add sensors and effectors to them. But problems in perception and action are substantial in their own right and a