n. Assumptions are depicted in rectangular boxes. Dashed arrows represent any other inference chains that could have been constructed, but are not depicted here. The TMS provides the following services to the problem solver. It caches the derivations made by the problem solver. This means that if the same reasoning step is to be made again, the TMS can help avoid duplicated computations. When a contradiction is signalled, it facilitates identification of possible causes and dependency directed backtracking. Once a node is introduced, it stays in the network. It may be marked IN signifying that there is positive belief for the datum, or OUT signifying negative belief. Nodes may change status multiple times during problem solving. Anode is N if at least one justification is supported by nodes that are IN. Else it is OUT. At any time, the TMS can inform the problem solver whether a node is being believed or not. That is, whether it is IN or OUT. Once an assumption is retracted, it is marked OUT. The network of justifications is used to propagate this change to succeeding nodes. -OOOND A set of assumptions that leads to a contradiction is marked as a nogood and never repeated again24. Spoke(Barkha, ) XX Spoke(Vir, Vinod ,! Ws Time ere x 5 a t Poa Gi a Sulprit(Surinden) yy CladesDeti)) an Sy Nes ic DS x ( Figure 17.19 The justification links to the contradiction node enable dependency directed backtracking. Assumptions are shown in rectangular boxes. The reasoning system described above has made the assumptions in the following order, 1. Nira spoke to Prashant ;Assumption 2. Barkha spoke to Kapil ; Assumption 3. Vir spoke to Vinod ; Assumption Chronological backtracking would retract the last made assumption first. However, in this case, the last assumption has no bearing on the inconsistency observed in the TMS. Instead, the algorithm traces back the justifications from the contradiction node and suggests that one of the other two assumptions needs to be retracted. Let 