ers in German universities devised a software engineering methodology, INRECA, that treated the process as an experience factory (Bergmann et al., 1999). Ralph Bergmann s post-doctoral thesis (Bergmann, 2002) gives a formal grounding to CBR in experience management. Exercises 1. Refine Figure 15.1 to incorporate implicit forms of knowledge representation. . Design a case structure to be used by a real estate site where people can look for renting or buying property. What are the core set of features, and what features could be used in specific domains (like big cities, holiday resorts, mountain or sea locations)? . How would one build a dating or a matrimonial site using CBR? Given the profiles of candidate persons, how does one match them to measure compatibility? Would it make sense to define local similarity measures that take into account the fact that often opposites attract ? Or would one transform the given profile (query) to a compatible desired profile that could be used for matching the profiles in the database? . Find the trigram based similarity, and the cosine similarity between the following sets of sentences, (a) John loves Mary. (b) Mary loves John. np wo NY (a) Colourless ideas are octagonal. (b) A colourless idea is an octagon. Land on the earth is hierarchically organized into regions. Starting with the continents, there are further divisions into countries, states, districts, etc. Is this hierarchical structure a taxonomy? What is a meaningful interpretation of the distance function? When the case schema is made up entirely of numeric values, then each case can be thought of as a point in N-dimensional space, where N is the number of attributes. Then similarity between two cases could be defined based on some distance measure in the N-dimensional space. Explore the use of Manhattan distance, Euclidean distance, and the Minkowski norm to define similarity functions. What is their correspondence with the aggregation functions defined in this chapte