 is a block. b2 is a pyramid, and hi supports h2. There are also procedural expressions to perform different tasks such as clear the top or manipulate an object. The ('LEARTOP expression is essentially a procedure that first checks to see if the object X supports an object Y. If so, it goes to GET. RID-OF Y and checks again. Integrating the parts of the understanding process with procedural knowledge has resulted in an efficient and effective understanding syst.'m. Of course. the domain of SHRDLU is very limited and closed. gretty simplt'ing the problem. 12.8 SUMMARY Understanding and generating human language is a difficult problem. It requires -a knowledge of grammar and language, of syntax and semantics. of what people know ard believe, their goals. the contextual setting. pragmatics. and world knowledge. - We began this chapter with an overview of topics in linguistics, including sentence types, word functions, and the parts of speech. The different forms of knowledge used in natural language understanding were then presented: phonological, morphological. syntactic, semantic, pragmatic, and world. Three general approaches have been followed in developing natural language systems: keyword and pattern matching. syntactic and semantic directed analysis., and matching real world scenarios. Most of the material in this chapter followed the syntactic and semantic directed approach. Chap. 12 Exercises 267 Grammars were formally introduced, and the Chomsky hierarchy was presented. This was followed with a description of structural representations for sentences, the phrase marker. Four additional extended grammars were briefly described. One was the transformational grammars, an extension of generative grammars. Transformational grammars include tree manipulation rules that permit the construction of deeper semantic structures than the generative grammars. Case, semantic, and systemic grammars were given as examples of grammars that are also more semantic oriented than t