omaticallyrespected. Usingsetnotationfor
clausesmakestheresolutionrulemuchcleaner,atthecostofintroducingadditionalnotation.
254 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
3. CN Frequires to appear only in literals, so we move inwards by repeated appli-
cationofthefollowingequivalences from Figure7.11: ( ) (double-negation elimination) ( ) ( ) (De Morgan) ( ) ( ) (De Morgan)
Intheexample,werequirejustoneapplication ofthelastrule:
( B P P ) (( P P ) B ).
1,1 1,2 2,1 1,2 2,1 1,1
4. Now we have a sentence containing nested and operators applied to literals. We
applythedistributivity lawfrom Figure7.11,distributing over whereverpossible.
( B P P ) ( P B ) ( P B ).
1,1 1,2 2,1 1,2 1,1 2,1 1,1
The original sentence is now in CNF,as aconjunction of three clauses. It is much harder to
read,butitcanbeusedasinputtoaresolution procedure.
Aresolution algorithm
Inference procedures based on resolution work by using the principle of proof bycontradic-
tion introduced on page 250. That is, to show that KB , we show that (KB ) is
unsatisfiable. Wedothisbyproving acontradiction.
A resolution algorithm is shown in Figure 7.12. First, (KB ) is converted into
CNF. Then, the resolution rule is applied to the resulting clauses. Each pair that contains
complementary literals is resolved to produce a new clause, which is added to the set if it is
notalreadypresent. Theprocesscontinues untiloneoftwothingshappens: therearenonewclauses thatcanbeadded, inwhichcase KB doesnotentail ;or, twoclausesresolvetoyieldtheemptyclause,inwhichcase KB entails .
Theemptyclause adisjunctionofnodisjuncts isequivalentto False becauseadisjunction
is true only if at least one of its disjuncts is true. Another way to see that an empty clause
represents acontradiction istoobservethatitarisesonly fromresolving twocomplementary
unitclausessuchas P and P.
Wecanapplytheresolutionproceduretoaverysimpleinferenceinthewumpusworld.
Whentheagentisin 1,1 ,thereisnobreeze, sotherecanbenopitsinneighboring squares.
Therelevantknowledgebaseis
KB 