imates by more than c, A using h returns a
solution whosecostexceedsthatoftheoptimalsolution bynomorethan c.
3.29 Prove that if a heuristic is consistent, it must be admissible. Construct an admissible
heuristic thatisnotconsistent.
3.30 The traveling salesperson problem (TSP)can be solved with the minimum-spanning-
tree (MST)heuristic, which estimates the cost of completing atour, given that a partial tour
has already been constructed. The MS Tcost ofaset ofcities isthe smallest sum of thelink
costsofanytreethatconnects allthecities.
a. Showhowthisheuristic canbederivedfromarelaxedversionofthe TSP.
b. Showthatthe MS Theuristicdominates straight-line distance.
c. Write a problem generator for instances of the TSP where cities are represented by
randompointsintheunitsquare. d. Findanefficientalgorithmintheliteratureforconstructing the MST,anduseitwith A
graphsearchtosolveinstances ofthe TSP.
3.31 Onpage 105,wedefinedtherelaxation ofthe8-puzzle inwhich atilecanmovefrom
square A to square B if B is blank. The exact solution of this problem defines Gaschnig s
heuristic (Gaschnig, 1979). Explain why Gaschnig s heuristic is at least as accurate as h
1
(misplaced tiles), and show cases where it is moreaccurate than both h and h (Manhattan
1 2
distance). Explainhowtocalculate Gaschnig s heuristicefficiently.
3.32 We gave two simple heuristics for the 8-puzzle: Manhattan distance and misplaced
tiles. Several heuristics in the literature purport to improve on this see, for example, Nils-
son (1971), Mostow and Prieditis (1989), and Hansson et al. (1992). Test these claims by
implementingtheheuristicsandcomparingtheperformance oftheresultingalgorithms.
4
BEYOND CLASSICAL
SEARCH
In which we relax the simplifying assumptions of the previous chapter, thereby
gettingclosertotherealworld.
Chapter 3 addressed a single category of problems: observable, deterministic, known envi-
ronmentswherethesolutionisasequenceofactions. Inthischapter,welookatwhathappens
whentheseassumptionsarerel