+ re mutually exclusive, F'(E1 U E U From these three axioms and the rules of set theory. the basic laws of probability can be derived. Of course, the axioms are not sufficient to compute the probability Of an outcome. That requires an understanding of the underlyingdistributions which must be established through one of the following approaches: I. use of a theoretical argument which Accurately characterizes the processes, 2. using one's familiarity and understanding of the basic processes to assign subjective probabilities or 3. collecting experimental data from which statistical estimates of the underlying distributions can be made. Since much of the knowledge we deal with is uncertain in nature, a number of our beliefs must be tenuous. Our conclusions are often based on available evidence and past experience, which is often far from complete. The Conclusions are, therefore, no more than educated guesses. In a great many situations it is possible to obtain Only partial knowledge concerning the possible outcome of some event. But, given that knowledge, one's ability to predict the outcome is certainly better than with no knowledge at all. We manage quite well in drawing plausible Conclusions from incomplete knowledge and pastexperiences. Probabilistic reasoning is sometimes used when outcomes are unpredictable. For example, when a physician examines a patient, the patient's history, symptoms, and test results provide some, but not conclusive, evidence of possible ailments. This knowledge, together with the physician's experience with previous patients, improves the likelihood of predicting the unknown (disease) event, but there is still much uncertainty in most diagnoses. Likewise, weather forecasters "guess" at tomorrow's weather based on available evidence such as temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, and cloud coverage observations. The physical relationships which govern these phenomena are not fully understood; so predictability is far from certain. Even