onen Networks, The new edition caters broadly to undergraduate students in Computer Science who are new to the concept of AI. Al novices are encouraged to read Parts I and II and also Chapter 25 to initially aid them commence experimentation in the laboratory. Postgraduate students will especially benefit from Part HI and the new chapters added therein. Laboratory implementations of these could be worked out either in Prolog or some other familiar Janguage. AI is not a field confined to Computer Science alone; its applications find their way into a variety of domains. Thus, those engaged in interdisciplinary studies will find possibilities of new approaches to a wide variety of research-oriented programmes in this edition. The Online Learning Center for this book includes a wealth of supplements for learning and teaching. For the Student Source Code for the GA program described in Chapter 23 Source Code for PROLOG programs in Chapter 25 For the Instructor * Power Point Slides e Solutions to the Exercises ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS While the acknowledgements made by the authors of the previous edition stand for all purposes, I venture to add some of mine for the additions made. The making of this revised edition has been a slightly long-drawn affair, thanks to so many eventful and uneventful situations I went through during the last three years. I must thank the publishers, Mc Graw-Hill Education India, for having been extremely understanding and allowing me all the time to complete this edition. From the technical perspective, I thank the previous authors Elaine Rich and Kevin Wright for their valuable comments in the making of this book. Pradip K Das of ny department has been kind to spare his valuable time. both in-flights and out, to help me with his invaluable statistical and logical inputs. There have been long-drawn discussions, especially on fuzzy logic and statistical language processing, for which I sincerely thank him. The GA program described for skill allocation i