roughly
constant time no matter how many states are stored. One must take care to implement the
hash table with the right notion of equality between states. For example, in the traveling
salesperson problem (page 74), the hash table needs to know that the set of visited cities Bucharest,Urziceni,Vaslui isthesameas Urziceni,Vaslui,Bucharest . Sometimesthiscan
be achieved most easily by insisting that the data structures for states be in some canonical
form; that is, logically equivalent states should map to the same data structure. In the case
CANONICALFORM
of states described by sets, for example, a bit-vector representation or a sorted list without
repetition wouldbecanonical, whereasanunsorted listwouldnot.
3.3.2 Measuring problem-solving performance
Before we get into the design of specific search algorithms, we need to consider the criteria
that might be used to choose among them. We can evaluate an algorithm s performance in
fourways: Completeness: Isthealgorithm guaranteed tofindasolution whenthereisone?
COMPLETENESS Optimality: Doesthestrategyfindtheoptimalsolution, asdefinedonpage68?
OPTIMALITY Timecomplexity: Howlongdoesittaketofindasolution?
TIMECOMPLEXITY Spacecomplexity: Howmuchmemoryisneededtoperformthesearch?
SPACECOMPLEXITY
Timeandspacecomplexityarealwaysconsidered withrespecttosomemeasureoftheprob-
lem difficulty. In theoretical computer science, the typical measure is the size of the state
space graph, V E , where V is the set of vertices (nodes) of the graph and E is the set
ofedges (links). Thisisappropriate whenthe graph isan explicit data structure that isinput
tothesearchprogram. (Themapof Romaniaisanexampleofthis.) In AI,thegraphisoften
represented implicitly bytheinitialstate, actions, andtransition modelandisfrequently infi-
nite. Forthesereasons,complexityisexpressedintermsofthreequantities: b,thebranching
factor or maximum number of successors of any node; d, the depth of the shallowest goal
BRANCHINGFACTOR
node(i.e.,thenumberofstepsalong 