t information: a player s cards are hidden from the other
BRIDGE
players. Bridge is also a multiplayer game with four players instead of two, although the
Section5.8. Alternative Approaches 187
players are paired into two teams. As in Section 5.6, optimal play in partially observable
gameslikebridgecanincludeelementsofinformationgathering,communication,andcareful
weighing of probabilities. Many of these techniques are used in the Bridge Baron program
(Smith et al., 1998), which won the 1997 computer bridge championship. While it does
not play optimally, Bridge Baron is one of the few successful game-playing systems to use
complex,hierarchicalplans(see Chapter11)involvinghigh-levelideas,suchasfinessingand
squeezing,thatarefamiliartobridgeplayers.
The GI Bprogram(Ginsberg,1999)wonthe2000computerbridgechampionshipquite
decisivelyusingthe Monte Carlomethod. Sincethen,otherwinningprogramshavefollowed
EXPLANATION-
GIB slead. GIB smajorinnovation isusingexplanation-based generalization tocompute
BASED
GENERALIZATION
and cache general rules foroptimal play in various standard classes of situations rather than
evaluating each situation individually. For example, in a situation where one player has the
cards A-K-Q-J-4-3-2 of one suit and another player has 10-9-8-7-6-5, there are 7 6 42
ways that the first player can lead from that suit and the second player can follow. But GIB
treats these situations as just two: the first player can lead either a high card or a low card;
theexactcardsplayeddon tmatter. Withthisoptimization (andafewothers), GI Bcansolve
a52-card, fullyobservable deal exactly inabout asecond. GIB stactical accuracy makesup
foritsinabilitytoreasonaboutinformation. Itfinished12thinafieldof35intheparcontest
(involving just play of the hand, not bidding) at the 1998 human world championship, far
exceeding theexpectations ofmanyhumanexperts.
Thereare several reasons why GIB plays atexpert level with Monte Carlosimulation,
whereas Kriegspiel programs donot. First, 