ct or category names in ovals or boxes, and connects them with labeled
links. Forexample, Figure 12.5 hasa Member Of link between Mary and Female Persons,
corresponding tothelogical assertion Mary Female Persons;similarly, the Sister Of link
between Mary and John corresponds totheassertion Sister Of(Mary,John). Wecancon-
nect categories using Subset Of links, and so on. It is such fun drawing bubbles and arrows
that one can get carried away. For example, we know that persons have female persons as
mothers, socanwedrawa Has Mother link from Persons to Female Persons? Theanswer
isno,because Has Mother isarelationbetweenapersonandhisorhermother,andcategories
donothavemothers.5
Forthisreason,wehaveusedaspecialnotation thedouble-boxedlink in Figure12.5.
Thislinkassertsthat x x Persons y Has Mother(x,y) y Female Persons .
Wemightalsowanttoassertthatpersonshavetwolegs thatis, x x Persons Legs(x,2).
Asbefore, weneed tobe careful not to assert that acategory has legs; the single-boxed link
in Figure12.5isusedtoassertproperties ofeverymemberof acategory.
The semantic network notation makes it convenient to perform inheritance reasoning
ofthekindintroducedin Section12.2. Forexample,byvirtueofbeingaperson,Maryinherits
the property of having two legs. Thus, to find out how many legs Mary has, the inheritance
algorithm follows the Member Of link from Mary to the category she belongs to, and then
follows Subset Of links up the hierarchy until it finds a category for which there is a boxed
Legs link inthiscase,the Persons category. Thesimplicityandefficiencyofthisinference
5 Severalearlysystemsfailedtodistinguishbetweenpropertiesofmembersofacategoryandpropertiesofthe
categoryasawhole. Thiscanleaddirectlytoinconsistencies,aspointedoutby Drew Mc Dermott(1976)inhis
article Artificial Intelligence Meets Natural Stupidity. Anothercommonproblemwastheuseof Is Alinksfor
bothsubsetandmembershiprelations,incorrespondencewith Englishusage: acatisamammal and Fifiisa
cat. See Exercise12.22formo