On the other hand, if the feedback is noisy or unreliable, the learning process may be very slow and the resultant knowledge incorrect. Finally, the learning algorithms themselves determine to a large extent how successful a learning system will be. The algorithms control the search to find and build the knowledge structures. We then expect that the algorithms that extract much of the useful information from training examples and take advantage of any background knowledge outperform those that do not. In the following chapters we Backgroi,nd knowledge Feedback Learning Training algorithms performance Scenario Raprntaoon Figure 16.2 Factors affecting learning Scheme performance. 364 General Concepts in Knowledge Acquisition Chap. 16 will see examples of systems which illustrate many of the above points regarding the effects of different factors on performance. 16.5 PERFORMANCE MEASURES In the following four chapters, we will be investigating systens based on different learning paradigms and having different architectures. How can we evaluate the performance of a given system or compare the relative performance of two different systems? We could attempt to conduct something like a Turing test on a system. But would this tell us how general or robust the system is or how easy it is to implement? Clearly, such comparisons are possible only when standard performance measures are available. For example, it would be useful to establish the relative efficiencies or speed with which two systems learned a concept or how robust (noise tolerant) a system is under different training scenarios. Although little work has been done to date in this area, we will propose some informal definitions for performance measures in this section. These definitions will at least permit us to establish estimates of some relative perfonnance characteristics among the different learning methods we will be considering. Generality. One of the most important performance measures for learning methods 