is
rotated. In this case, because the body and handle belong to the same mug, we have self-
occlusion.Finally,onthebottomright,someobjectscandeformdramatically.
withrespect toone another, but ifmostofthe pattern elements arepresent inabout theright
place,thentheobjectispresent. Anobjectrecognizeristhenacollectionoffeaturesthatcan
tellwhetherthepatternelementsarepresent, andwhethertheyareinabouttherightplace.
The most obvious approach is to represent the image window with a histogram of the
pattern elements that appear there. This approach does not work particularly well, because
too many patterns get confused with one another. For example, if the pattern elements are
color pixels, the French, UK, and Netherlands flags will get confused because they have
approximately the same color histograms, though the colors are arranged in very different
ways. Quite simple modifications of histograms yield very useful features. The trick is to
preserve some spatial detail in the representation; for example, headlights tend to be at the
front of a car and wheels tend to be at the bottom. Histogram-based features have been
successful inawidevarietyofrecognition applications; wewillsurveypedestrian detection.
24.3.2 Pedestriandetection with HO Gfeatures
The World Bankestimatesthateachyearcaraccidentskillabout1.2millionpeople,ofwhom
abouttwothirdsarepedestrians. Thismeansthatdetecting pedestrians isanimportantappli-
cation problem, because cars that can automatically detect and avoid pedestrians might save
many lives. Pedestrians wear many different kinds of clothing and appear in many different
configurations, but, at relatively low resolution, pedestrians can have a fairly characteristic
appearance. The most usual cases are lateral or frontal views of a walk. In these cases,
946 Chapter 24. Perception
Image Orientation Positive Negative
histograms components components
Figure 24.14 Local orientation histograms are a powerful feature for recognizing even
quitecomplexobjects. Onthel