rsretrieved.
She wants to be sure that she has seen everything in the document collection that is
Exercises 887
relevant to her query. (E.g., a lawyer wants to be sure that she has found all relevant
precedents, andiswillingtospendconsiderable resources onthat.)
d. The searcher needs just one document relevant to the query, and can afford to pay a
researchassistantforanhour sworklookingthroughtheresults. Theassistantcanlook
through 100 retrieved documents inan hour. Theassistant will charge the searcher for
thefullhourregardlessofwhetherhefindsitimmediatelyor attheendofthehour.
e. The searcher will look through all the answers. Examining a document has cost A;
finding arelevant document has value B; failing to finda relevant document has cost C foreachrelevantdocumentnotfound.
f. Thesearcherwantstocollectasmanyrelevantdocumentsaspossible, butneedssteady
encouragement. She looks through the documents in order. If the documents she has
lookedatsofararemostlygood, shewillcontinue; otherwise, shewillstop.
23
NATURAL LANGUAGE
FOR COMMUNICATION
Inwhichweseehowhumanscommunicatewithoneanotherinnaturallanguage,
andhowcomputeragentsmightjoinintheconversation.
Communicationistheintentional exchange ofinformation broughtaboutby theproduction
COMMUNICATION
andperceptionofsignsdrawnfromasharedsystemofconventional signs. Mostanimalsuse
SIGN
signs torepresent important messages: foodhere, predator nearby, approach, withdraw, let s
mate. Inapartially observable world, communication canhelpagents besuccessful because
theycanlearninformationthatisobservedorinferredbyothers. Humansarethemostchatty
of all species, and if computer agents are to be helpful, they ll need to learn to speak the
language. In this chapter we look at language models for communication. Models aimed at
deep understanding of a conversation necessarily need to be more complex than the simple
models aimed at, say, spam classification. We start with grammatical models of the phrase
structure of sentences, add semanti