f longer than by defining an ordering on the objects of type length as follows. (length(O,) length(O2)) (cms(length(O,)) cms(length(O2))) assuming we have an ordering on numbers. But now what is a number? (McCulloch, 1961)' At the most basic level, numbers have obviously something to do with counting. We say that two sets have the same number of elements if we can establish a bijection between them. Bertrand Russell said that the number is a class of all those classes that can be put in one to one correspondence with it . A number is certainly an abstract concept, and is a perfect example of a reified entity. The numeral 7, or VII, or the word seven , for example corresponds to the reified entity that is the number 7, which is an element of a set (of natural numbers) that can be defined inductively. The number 0 maps to the cardinality of the empty set. The following definition of the set of numbers is due to John von Neumann. Each number corresponds to a set, which contains that many elements. Zero corresponds to the empty set. We say zero is equal to the empty set. Given a number N, the next number s(N) is the union of the set containing N and all the members of (the set) N. That is, s(N) N U N (remember Nis a set) For readability, we use the notation to stand for the empty set. 1 0 note 0 or has no elements Thus a number is greater than all its predecessors, and the successor of a number is made by taking the elements of the number and adding one more element, the number itself, shown underlined above. Given the above definition of the successor function we can define the set of natural numbers as successive successors of the number 0. The set of numerals in the language 0, 1, 2, 3, ... can then be mapped to the reified objects 0, s(0), s(s(0)), s(s(s(0))), ... . Note that we have overloaded the symbol O to stand both for the numeral 0 and the number 0. Another way we could talk about length is to deal with the reified object length(Object) directly (Russel and N