 of abstraction and packaging (or aggregation) hierarchies. At this point, we can distinguish between two kinds of knowledge that exists in an agent's memory. One, semantic memory, is ontological in nature, and defines the categories and instances of things and processes that exist and the relations between them. The other is episodic memory that stores the experiences of the agent. This is the kind of memory a case based reasoning agent works with (see also Chapter 15). Episodic memory is the memory of episodes. Episodes are made up of events. And as discussed in Chapter 13, events can be thought of as belonging to another class of things. Another distinction between episodic and semantic memory is that the former is dynamic while the latter is more or less static. However, this distinction is blurred in the MOP. This is because the MOP can store both classes and instances at different level of granularity. Episodes (that occur) are sequence of instances. They can find a place in the MOP in which each event, or sequence of events, can be an instance of a scene or a script. In fact, it has been hypothesized that structures like scripts are learnt via repeated occurrences of similar experiences, and this can be seen as a process of learning abstract knowledge from instances. Not surprisingly, a lot of work on MOPs was reported in the context of case based reasoning (Riesbeck and Schank, 1989), (Kolodner, 1993). The fact that a MOP is an integrated structure, containing all concepts and actual experiences allows for the possibility of cross contextual reminding. This can happen when episodes in different domains or contexts have a common abstraction level at which their similarity can be observed. This was demonstrated in a system called SWALE (Kass, 1986), (Leake and Owens, 1986) that explained the death of a successful and healthy race horse called Swale by matching the episodes with another story (case) where a spouse kills spouse for life insurance , substituting 