ow what Al is not. Al is not the study and creation of conventional computer systems. Even though one can argue that all programs exhibit some degree of intelligence, an Al program will go beyond this in demonstrating a high level of intelligence to a degree that equals or exceeds the intelligence required of a human in performing some task. Al is not the study of the mind, nor of the body, nor of languages, as customarily found in the fields of psychology, physiology, cognitive science, or linguistics. To be sure, there is some overlap between these fields and Al. All seek a better understanding of the human's intelligence and sensing processes. But in Al the goal is to develop working computer systems that are truly capable of performing tasks that require high levels of intelligence. The programs are not necessarily meant to imitate human senses and thought processes. Indeed, in performing some tasks differently, they may actually exceed human abilities. The important point is that the systems all be capable of performing intelligent tasks effectively and efficiently. Finally, a better understanding of Al is gained by looking at the component areas of study that make up the whole. These include such topics as robotics, memory organization, knowledge representation, storage and recall, learning models, inference techniques, commonsense reasoning, dealing with uncertainty in reasoningand decision making, understanding natural language, pattern recognition and machine vision methods, search and matching, speech recognition and synthesis, and a variety of Al tools. How much success have we realized in Al to date? What are the next big challenges? The answers to these questions form a large part of the material covered in this text. We shall be studying many topics which bear directly or indirectly on these questions. in the following chapters. We only mention here that Al is coming of an age where practical commercial products are now available including a variety of