atingrobotsisestimatedatonemillion
worldwide,morethanhalfofwhichareinstalled in Japan.
Theliteratureonroboticsresearchcanbedividedroughlyintotwoparts: mobilerobots
and stationary manipulators. Grey Walter s turtle, built in 1948, could be considered the
firstautonomousmobilerobot,althoughitscontrolsystemwasnotprogrammable. The Hop-
kins Beast, built in the early 1960s at Johns Hopkins University, was much more sophisti-
cated; it had pattern-recognition hardware and could recognize the cover plate of a standard
ACpoweroutlet. Itwascapableofsearchingforoutlets,pluggingitselfin,andthenrecharg-
ing its batteries! Still, the Beast had a limited repertoire of skills. The first general-purpose
mobilerobotwas Shakey, developedatwhatwasthenthe Stanford Research Institute(now
1012 Chapter 25. Robotics
SRI) in the late 1960s (Fikes and Nilsson, 1971; Nilsson, 1984). Shakey was the first robot
to integrate perception, planning, and execution, and much subsequent research in AI was
influenced by this remarkable achievement. Shakey appears on the cover of this book with
project leader Charlie Rosen (1917 2002). Other influential projects include the Stanford
Cart and the CMU Rover(Moravec, 1983). Cox and Wilfong (1990) describes classic work
onautonomous vehicles.
The field of robotic mapping has evolved from two distinct origins. The first thread
began with work by Smith and Cheeseman (1986), who applied Kalman filters to the si-
multaneous localization and mapping problem. This algorithm was first implemented by
Moutarlier and Chatila (1989), and later extended by Leonard and Durrant-Whyte (1992);
see Dissanayake et al. (2001) for an overview of early Kalman filtervariations. The second
thread began with the development of the occupancy grid representation for probabilistic
OCCUPANCYGRID
mapping, which specifies the probability that each (x,y) location is occupied by an obsta-
cle (Moravec and Elfes, 1985). Kuipers and Levitt (1988) were among the first to propose
topological 