ity one, because the retrieval set is yet empty. The other cases from CBsubset could still be the ones with the lowest similarity values. The Diversity-BG does K passes over the set CBsubset of size BK, while the Diversity-DCR is likely to do a smaller number of passes over the set casesAlfa. Apart from that, both algorithms need to do KNN retrieval once. In the algorithms described here, these are done by sequential retrieval, but could be replaced by any suitable faster algorithm. 15.3 Reuse and Adaptation Case based reasoning works by retrieving the case or cases that are most similar to the query from memory and reusing the solution component for solving the current problem. If the retrieved case matches the given problem perfectly then the retrieved solution could be used directly. However, this may not always be the case" . If the retrieved case is a little different from the given problem, then a process of adaptation may be necessary to solve the given problem. The task of adaptation is a new problem in itself. The input is a possibly flawed solution or lesson. The goal is to produce a good solution. The most common approach to adaptation has been rule based, though search, or even a case based approach itself has also been tried (Leake, 1996a), (Leake et al., 1996). CBR solves problems by remembering and reusing. Reuse or adaptation however, requires some kind of domain knowledge. The question has been asked that since one has to solve the adaptation problem to solve the original problem, is there any advantage gained by retrieving solutions and adapting them? Why not use the approach being used in adaptation to solve the original problem itself? The answer lies in complexity analysis. Given that most first principles (search based) methods are of exponential complexity, adaptation may involve tinkering only a part of a solution, and may thus be less complex. A formal analysis of this was given by Au, Munoz-Avila and Nau in their paper on case based plannin