uring s idea was a similar in fact remarkably similar strange inversion of reasoning. The Pre-Turing world was one in which computers were people, who had to understand mathematics in order to do their jobs. Turing realised that this was just not necessary: you could take the tasks they performed and squeeze out the last tiny smidgens of understanding, leaving nothing but brute, mechanical actions. He saw clearly that all the versatility and selfmodifiability of human thought learning and re-evaluation and, language and problem-solving, for instance could in principle be constructed out of these building blocks. Dennett. Just as nature provides a platform for life forms to wage a battle for survival, the computer system can provide a platform for algorithms to evolve. The algorithms can be as complex as one desires. While many researchers have explored the possibility of building intelligent systems by a process of evolution, there have been others that have strived to study intelligence and design systems for intelligent behaviour. This approach essentially seeks to exploit our own capability to introspect on our behaviour to tease out the elements of intelligence. It is essentially a shortcut to building intelligence, exploiting our own intelligence to build more intelligence. Throughout this book we have moved back and forth between the cognitive science or cognitive psychology goal of understanding intelligence and the engineering goal of building (intelligent) systems that are useful for us. Are these two goals independent of each other? We would like to argue they are not. Building intelligent systems is a way of understanding intelligence, and understanding intelligence facilitates building intelligent systems. Intelligence The ability to predict the effect of one s actions is fundamental to intelligent activity. Choosing the actions that will lead to a the desired result builds upon that. The ability itself is founded upon the ability to perceive, to build a