llen feet and suffers from hair loss, it may be concluded the patient has superciliosis, regardless of whether or not the patient has red ears. This is so because the unknown variable cannot force the sum to change to negative. A system such as this can also explain how or why a conclusion was reached. For example, when inputs ,pd outputs are regarded as rules, an output can be explained as the conclusion to a rule. If placibin is true, the system might explain why with a statement such as Piacibin is TRUE due to the following rule: IF Placibin Alergy (ue) is FALSE, and Superciliosis is TRUE THEN Conclude Placibin is TRUE. Expert systems based on neural network architectures can be designed to possess many of the features of other expert system types, including explanations for how and why, and confidence estimation for variable deduction. 15.4 DEALING WITH UNCERTAINTY In Chapters 5 and 6 we discusseu me problem of dealing with uncertainty in knowledgebased systems. We found that different approaches were possible including probabilistic (Bayesian or Shafer-Dempster), the use of fuzzy logic, ad-hoc, and heuristic methods. All of these methods have been applied in some form of system, and many building tools permit the use of more than a single method. The ad-hoc method used in MYCIN was described in Section 6.5. Refer to that section to review how uncertainty computations are performed in a typical expert system. 15.5 KNOWLEDGE ACQUISITION AND VALIDATION One of the most difficult tasks in building knowledge-based systems is in the acquisition and encoding of the requisite domain knowledge. Knowledge for expert systems must be derived from expert sources like experts in the given field, journal articles, texts, reports, data bases, and so on. Elicitation of the right knowledge can take several man years and cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. This process is now recognized as one of the main bottlenecks in building expert and other knowledgebased systems. Conseque