ch closer contact
with other fields, such as control theory and economics, that also deal with agents. Recent
progressinthecontrolofroboticcarshasderivedfromamixtureofapproachesrangingfrom
better sensors, control-theoretic integration of sensing, localization and mapping, as well as
adegreeofhigh-level planning.
Despite these successes, some influential founders of AI, including John Mc Carthy
(2007), Marvin Minsky (2007), Nils Nilsson (1995, 2005) and Patrick Winston (Beal and
Winston,2009),haveexpresseddiscontentwiththeprogressof AI.Theythinkthat AIshould
put less emphasis on creating ever-improved versions of applications that are good at a spe-
cific task, such as driving a car, playing chess, or recognizing speech. Instead, they believe
AIshouldreturntoitsrootsofstrivingfor,in Simon swords, machinesthatthink,thatlearn
andthatcreate. Theycalltheeffort human-level AIor HLAI;theirfirstsymposium wasin
HUMAN-LEVELAI
2004(Minskyetal.,2004). Theeffortwillrequireverylargeknowledgebases; Hendleretal.
(1995)discusswheretheseknowledgebasesmightcomefrom.
ARTIFICIALGENERAL A related idea is the subfield of Artificial General Intelligence or AGI (Goertzel and
INTELLIGENCE
Pennachin,2007),whichhelditsfirstconferenceandorganizedthe Journalof Artificial Gen-
eral Intelligence in 2008. AGI looks for a universal algorithm for learning and acting in
any environment, and has its roots in the work of Ray Solomonoff (1964), one of the atten-
dees of the original 1956 Dartmouth conference. Guaranteeing that what we create is really
Friendly AI isalso aconcern (Yudkowsky, 2008; Omohundro, 2008), one we will return to
FRIENDLYAI
in Chapter26.
1.3.10 The availabilityofvery largedata sets (2001 present)
Throughoutthe60-yearhistoryofcomputerscience,theemphasishasbeenonthealgorithm
asthemainsubject ofstudy. Butsomerecentworkin AIsuggests thatformanyproblems,it
makes more sense to worry about the data and be less picky about what algorithm to apply.
This is true because of the increasing ava