describes the contents of this book with some description that would allow one to eschew the linear narrative, and jump directly to some topic of interest. A Brief Look at the Chapters The study of Artificial Intelligence is concerned not so much with defining intelligence, but the study of the different kinds of reasoning processes that would come together to create an intelligent system. And an intelligent system would be one that can represent its domain of activity, perceive the state of the domain, and reason in a manner to achieve its goals. This reasoning process we refer to as problem solving. There are two basic approaches to solving problems. One is to create an appropriate representation of the domain, and project the consequences of one s decisions into the future by some kind of simulation. One can investigate different possible courses of actions and choose the most promising one. We can say that this approach is a first principles approach, in which a problem is solved anew when it presents itself. However, as we will see in the book, such methods incur a high computational cost since the number of combinations explodes exponentially in many domains. The second approach is to delve into the agent s memory, and retrieve similar problems that were solved in the past. Both approaches require knowledge representation to model the domain, the entities and the relations between them. In addition, systems that rely on memory also need to represent episodes from the past. In the first half of the book, we look at problem solving using search. The given situation and the desired situation are mapped on to a search space. We assume that the solver has access to moves , using which the solver can change the situation a little bit. Each application of a move transforms the situation, taking the solver to a new state. Problem solving using search involves exploring, by a process of trial and error; and finding the sequence of moves that will take the solver to the