scription 6. rdZ:about nttp: wew.muzicsite.2zz title Jamuna Ke Teer" 7. composition:album Golden Raga Collection composition:album 8. composition:artist Pandit Bhimsen Joshi compo jion:artist 9. composition:musicalForm Thumri composition:musicalForm c. composition:raag Raga Bhairavi composition:raag 1. composition:medium Vocal composition:mediur Sb composition:recording Times Music composition:recording 3. composition:year 1997 composition:year 4. rdf:Description 5. rdf:Description 6. rdfsabout http: www.muzicsite.zzz title Spanisz Dance 7. composition:album Carmen Fantasy composition:album gs. composition:artist rdf:Seq xrdf:li Sergei Nakariakov rd :1i rdf:li Alexander Markovich rdaf:1i rdaft:Seq 9. composition:artist oO. composition:musicalForm Virtuoso composition:musicalForm 1. composition:medium Trumpet and Piano composition:medium So composition:composer Manuel de Falla composition:composer Ep composition:recording TELDEC composition:recording 4. composition:year 1994 composition:year 5. rdaf:Description . 7. 8. rdf :RDF FIGURE 13.1 An example of the use of RDF to provide metadata for music pieces. Italics only used to demarcate the content for the reader. he figure below depicts part of the data in a graphical form. Each RDF triple is represented by an arc labeled with the predicate from the subject to the object. The values in the square boxes are literals and are to be taken literally (without any interpretation). We could have made URI s for some of them, for example the artist and the album title. This approach of using RDF triples to store data leads to the idea of graph databases. www.muzicsite.zzz titleJamuna Ke Teer kazinhut.com http: www .muzicsite.zzz composition album http: www.muzicsite.zzz composition raag Golden Raga Collection Raga Bhairavi http. www.muzicsite.zzz composition artist Pandit Bhimsen Joshi http: www.muzicsite.zzz composition ae yg r, ; http: www.muzicsite.zzz composition musiclF orm 1 Vocal Thumri http: yw .muzicsite.zzz compositi