y. A search engine is designed to work over a collection of 1000 documents. In response to a query Q, the system retrieves 20 documents, of which 15 are found to be relevant. It is known from human judgements that the collection has 25 documents which are relevant to Q. Calculate the precision and recall of retrieval. An Information Retrieval system has precision P and recall R with respect to a query Q. Think of a particle traversing a straight line segment of length unity, such that a distance a is covered with speed P and the remaining distance (1 - a) with speed R (such that 0 sas 1). Show that the average speed of the particle over the entire stretch corresponds to Fg measure. In the light of this correspondence, can you suggest why the Fy, measure is preferred over the arithmetic mean of P and R? . You are given a term document matrix of size 1000x200. Can you apply the Matrix Diagonalization on this matrix to extract concepts? If yes, explain how, and show how this compares against mining concepts using SVD. 12. In stochastic Machine Translation from Hindi to English, we set out to find an English sentence that optimizes P(E H), but then use of Bayes rule to estimate P(H E) and P(E) instead. Why is estimating P(H E) any better than estimating P(E H) directly? 13. Can all the knowledge that a search engine needs about a movie be obtained from the pixels that make up the movie shots? Discuss. 1 http: www.departments. bucknell.edu linguistics synhead.html 2 http: wn-similarity.sourceforge.net 3 Note that, unlike the example presented, all entries in a term document matrix are usually non-negative. For a helpful online tutorial, refer to http: ;www.isi.edu naturallanguage mt wkbk. rtf 4 Reasoning Under Uncertainty Chapter 17 ii is rarely that an agent has the privilege of reasoning with a complete and deterministic model of the world. This is especially true in a dynamic world which is changing all the time. Uncertainty appears in different forms. The simplest fo