red. In the quest to find better techniques, the reader is advised to give imagination a free run so that the marginal and the peripheral are accommodated without losing the grounding of each symbol. EXERCISES pete EMR PREVA LLMEBT TO GC FOT ES EBRIP TORRE te SA BROPANON EOE IT OS wane asp ae FTO SAO ohn tet ED 1. Pick a specific topic within the scope of AI and use the sources described in this chapter to do a preliminary literature search to determine what the current state of understanding of that topic is. If you cannot think of a more novel topic, try one of the following: expert systems for some specific domain (e.g., cancer therapy, computer design, financial planning), recognizing motion in images, using natural (i.e., humanlike) methods for proving mathematical theorems, resolving pronominal references in natural language texts, representing sequences of events in time, or designing a memory organization scheme for knowledge in a computer system based on our knowledge of human memory organization. 2. Explore the spectrum from static to Al-based techniques for a problem other than the two discussed in this chapter. Think of your own problem or use one of the following: Translating an English sentence into Japanese Teaching a child to subtract integers Discovering patterns in empirical data taken from scientific experiments, and suggesting further experiments to find more patterns 3. Imagine that you had been to an aquarium and seen a shark and an octopus. Describe these to a child who has never seen one. What resources and mechanisms does the child use to comprehend the nature of these marine animals? CHAPTER 2 PROBLEMS, PROBLEM SPACES, AND SEARCH 15 not that I'm so smart, tts just that I stay with problems longer. Albert Einstein (1879 -1955), German-born theoretical physicist In the last chapter, we gave a brief description of the kinds of problems with which Al is typically concerned, as well as a couple of examples of the techniques it offers to solve th