lgorithms (GA) in optimization and learning. A typical case of optimization with constraints using the example of allocating employees based on their skills has been described. As a tail-ender to this section. the reader is made aware of the ways to juggle the algorithm so as to avoid getting trapped in a local optimum. Further, the use of GAs to evolve neural networks is also explained. The chapter also discusses the Schema theorem the basis for this algorithm. Though not directly related to GAs, the chapter concludes by igniting the reader s interest on Ant algorithms. Chapter 24 discusses a relatively new and emerging area of bio-inspired systems the Artificial Immune System (AIS). It may be worth mentioning that the field by itself. to date, has seen only seven international conferences; tbe last one (ICARIS 2008) was held at Phuket, Thailand in August 2008. The chapter initially takes the reader on a tour of the general aspects of immunology. Since most of the readers are new to this field, this part has been emphasised in as technical a way as was possible. Two of the major theories The Clonal Selection and the Network or Idiotypic theory in immunology have been described. Aspects on how one can go about modelling an Artificial Immune System based on its natural counterpart have also been explained. Two diverse real-world applications conclude the chapter. A special glossary of terms is appended to ease the comprehension of specific biological terms used therein. Chapter 25 deals with PROLOG The Natural Language of Artificial Intelligence. The chapter has been included to assist the reader in daring to implement Al-based applications. The previous edition did not give much thought to a language and assumed that the reader would write programs to see how well the content of the book works in the real world. Implementing Al to comprehend its feasibility in the real world is of utmost importance. History stands witness to the initial failures, thanks to the notio