5) A sy] = 0.84 + (0.6 - 0.16) = 0.936 This is a substantially different result than the true value, as expressed by the expert, of 0.7. Now let s consider what happens when independence assumptions are violated in the scenario of Fig. 8.1(c). Let s consider a concrete example in which: S: sprinkler was on [ast night W: grass is wet R: it rained last night We can write MYCIN-style rules that describe predictive relationships among these three events: If: the sprinkler was on last night then there is suggestive evidence (0.9) that the grass will be wet this morning Taken alone, this rule may accurately describe the world. But now consider a second rule: If: the grass is wet this morning then there is suggestive evidence (0.8) that it rained last night Taken alone, this rule makes sense when rain is the most common source of water on the grass. But if the two rules are applied together, using MYCIN s rule for chaining, we get MB[W,S] = 0.8 {sprinkler suggests wet} MB[R,W] = 0.8 - 0.9 = 0.72 {wet suggests rains} In other words, we believe that it rained because we believe the sprinkler was on. We get this despite the fact that if the sprinkler is known to have been on and to be the cause of the grass being wet, then there is actually almost no evidence for rain (because the wet grass has been explained some other way). One of the major advantages of the, modularity of the MYCIN rule system is that it allows us to consider individual antecedent/consequent relationships independently of others. In particular, it lets us talk about the implications of a proposition without going back and considering the evidence that supported it. Unfortunately, this example shows that there is a danger in this approach whenever the justifications of a belief are important to determining its consequences. In this case, we need to know why we believe the grass is wet (e.g., because we observed it to be wet as opposed to because we know the sprinkler was on) in order to determine whether th