f the activation spreading networks with the system NETL. The idea of a massively parallel activation spreading network has inherent appeal because our own brains can be viewed as such networks. Fahlman also introduced the distinction between individuals and classes, the notions of inheritance, and also the idea of overriding the inherited values. The oft-quoted example of Clyde being an elephant and therefore being grey can be traced to papers by Fahlman. The concepts of activation spreading were further explored by many researchers (see for example (Collins and Loftus, 1975), (Anderson, 1983), (Hendler, 1988), (Wolverton and Hayes-Roth, 1994), and (Jiang and Tan, 2006)). Eugene Charniak carried forward the idea of marker passing to processing of language. One of the key problems in natural language processing, known as the problem of word-sense disambiguation, is to choose the sense of the words in a sentence. The problem arises if one is trying to write a language comprehension program. In an earlier paper, Charniak (1977) describes a frame-based story-understanding program he called Ms. Malaprop. The paper discusses the vast amount of knowledge about painting that a system will need to have to be able to comprehend stories about painting. For example, the system should know that before one paints an object, one normally cleans it to avoid flaking, or that if there is too much paint on the brush, it might drip. The painting frame discussed by Charniak knits together all such information. The process of understanding a story, or comprehending a sequence of utterances in a language is fitting what one is told into the framework established by what one already knows (Charniak, 1977).12 We will look at this process in a little bit more detail when we look at Schank s work below. The level of understanding that a system (or a human for that matter) has, depends upon the depth of knowledge the system (or human) has. Having knowledge of physical objects like the facts t