le memory. The choice of representation can simplify the organization and access operations. For example, frames linked together in a network represent a versatile organization structure. Each frame will contain all closely associated information about an object and pointers to related object frames making it possible to quickly gain access to this information. Subsequent processing then typically involves only a few related frames. 2.6 KNOWLEDGE MANIPULATION Decisions and actions in knowledge-based systems come from manipulation of the knowledge in specified ways. Typically, some form of input (from a user keyboard or Sensors) will initiate a search for a goal or decision. This requires that known facts in the knowledge-base be located, compared (matched), and possibly altered in some way. This process may set up other subgoals and require further inputs, and so on until a final solution is found. The manipulations are the computational equivalent of reasoning. This requires a form of inference or deduction, using the knowledge and inferring rules. All forms of reasoning require a certain amount of searching and matching. In fact, these two operations by far consume the greatest amount of computation time in At systems. For this reason it is important to have techniques available that limit the amount of search and matching required to complete any given task. Much research has been done in these areas to find better methods. The research has paid off with methods which help to make many otherwise intractable problems solvable. They help to limit or avoid the so-called combinatorial explosion in problems which are so common in search. Chap. 2 Exercises 17 2.7 ACQUISITON OF KNOWLEDGE One of the greatest bottlenecks in building knowledge-rich systems is the acquisition and validation of the knowledge. Knowledge can come from various sources, such as experts, textbooks, reports, technical articles, and the like. To be useful, the knowledge must be accurate, presented 