Freuder(1985),who
showedthat search onarcconsistent treesworks without any backtracking. Asimilarresult,
with extensions to acyclic hypergraphs, was developed in the database community (Beeri
et al., 1983). Bayardo and Miranker (1994) present an algorithm for tree-structured CS Ps
thatrunsinlineartimewithoutanypreprocessing.
Sincethosepaperswerepublished,therehasbeenagreatdealofprogressindeveloping
moregeneralresultsrelatingthecomplexityofsolvinga CS Ptothestructureofitsconstraint
graph. Thenotionoftreewidthwasintroducedbythegraphtheorists Robertsonand Seymour
(1986). Dechter and Pearl (1987, 1989), building on the work of Freuder, applied a related
notion (whichthey called inducedwidth)toconstraint satisfaction problems and developed
thetreedecompositionapproachsketchedin Section6.5. Drawingonthisworkandonresults
230 Chapter 6. Constraint Satisfaction Problems
fromdatabasetheory,Gottlobetal.(1999a,1999b)developedanotion,hypertreewidth,that
isbased onthecharacterization of the CS Pasahypergraph. Inaddition toshowing that any
CSP with hypertree width w can be solved in time O(nw 1logn), they also showed that
hypertree width subsumes all previously defined measures of width in the sense that there
arecaseswherethehypertreewidthisboundedandtheothermeasuresareunbounded.
Interestinlook-backapproachestobacktrackingwasrekindledbytheworkof Bayardo
and Schrag(1997),whose RELSAT algorithmcombinedconstraintlearningandbackjumping
and was shown to outperform many other algorithms of the time. This led to AND OR
search algorithms applicable to both CS Ps and probabilistic reasoning (Dechter and Ma-
teescu, 2007). Brown et al. (1988) introduce the idea of symmetry breaking in CS Ps, and
Gentetal.(2006)givearecentsurvey.
DISTRIBUTED
Thefieldofdistributed constraint satisfaction looks atsolving CS Pswhenthere isa
CONSTRAINT
SATISFACTION
collection of agents, each of which controls a subset of the constraint variables. There have
been annual workshops on this problem since 2000, and 