ssinganadditivevaluefunctionrequires assessingnseparate
one-dimensionalvaluefunctionsratherthanonen-dimensionalfunction;typically,thisrepre-
sentsanexponentialreductioninthenumberofpreferenceexperimentsthatareneeded. Even
when MPI does not strictly hold, as might be the case at extreme values of the attributes, an
additive value function might still provide a good approximation to the agent s preferences.
This is especially true when the violations of MPI occur in portions of the attribute ranges
thatareunlikely tooccurinpractice.
Tounderstand MPI better, ithelps tolook at cases where it doesn t hold. Suppose you
are at a medieval market, considering the purchase of some hunting dogs, some chickens,
and some wicker cages for the chickens. The hunting dogs are very valuable, but if you
don t haveenough cages forthechickens, thedogs willeatthechickens; hence, thetradeoff
between dogs and chickens depends strongly on the number of cages, and MPI is violated.
Theexistenceofthesekindsofinteractionsamongvariousattributesmakesitmuchharderto
assesstheoverallvaluefunction.
Preferences withuncertainty
When uncertainty is present in the domain, we also need to consider the structure of prefer-
ences between lotteries and to understand the resulting properties of utility functions, rather
than just value functions. The mathematics of this problem can become quite complicated,
sowepresent justoneofthemainresults togiveaflavorofwhatcanbedone. Thereaderis
referredto Keeneyand Raiffa(1976)forathorough surveyof thefield.
626 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
UTILITY The basic notion of utility independence extends preference independence to cover
INDEPENDENCE
lotteries: aset ofattributes Xisutility independent ofaset ofattributes Yifpreferences be-
tweenlotteriesontheattributes in Xareindependent oftheparticularvaluesoftheattributes
MUTUALLYUTILITY in Y. A set of attributes is mutually utility independent (MUI) if each of its subsets is
INDEPENDENT
utility-independent of the remai