atomic concepts. One of the earliest approaches to devise a compositional knowledge representation scheme was by Gottfried Leibniz when he introduced the notions of characteristica universalis and calculus ratiocinator in 1679 (see for example (Jaenecke, 1996)). Like most philosophers who were investigating the principles of thought, Leibniz was also trying to establish a rational basis of human thought. His basic principles are. 1. All our ideas are compounded from a very small number of simple ideas, which form the alphabet of human thought . 2. Complex ideas are formed by simple ideas by uniform and symmetrical combination , analogous to arithmetical multiplication. At one point, Leibniz explored the possibility of representing all concepts using prime numbers. For example if grey 3, elephant 7, inBangalore 11, isBookstore 23 then the product 231 represents a grey elephant in Bangalore. Then, every compound concept and individual could be a number. For example, the Strand bookstore in Bangalore might have a number 5981426. Given the number 5981426, we can check if the property inBangalore is true if it is divisible by 11, and the property isBookstore by checking if it is divisible by 23. If Clyde is assigned the number 6123278, we can determine that he is an elephant because 6123278 is divisible by 7, but is not grey because it is not divisible by 3. In general, given two concepts X and Y, we can find out if X is a subconcept of Y by checking if Y is divisible by X. One objection to this scheme would be that the assignment of prime numbers for properties is one-dimensional, opaque and arbitrary, and lacks enough description. While Leibniz did not publish much in philosophy, Bertrand Russell (1945) has said that he had in fact developed symbolic logic to a considerable degree.21 Modern Description Logics have the same compositional flavour, though the operations allowed for combination are more generalized and diverse. There are a number of languages of varying ex