ntelligent too. They are, in this sense and to this extent, intelligent. But intelligence, as we want to define or recognize, must include something more. There is the ability to reason, do arithmetic, and play chess. This of course is well within the capacity of the computer, but this is not sufficient to be called intelligent too. The ability to use language and learn from experiences must count as well. We know that animals learn from experience, and that certain species do communicate with some form of meaningful sounds. Other species do use signs and symbols to mark their territory and lay trails for others to follow. The question we ask then is do they do so consciously, or is it a part of their inherited genetic makeup? Gradually, a picture emerges that intelligence may be (the effect of, or emerge from) a collection of different kinds of skills working together. It is as if a society of problem solvers inhabits and makes up our minds (see (Minsky, 1988)). Goal oriented behaviour must be part of intelligence, and the deployment of skills is usually directed towards the achievement of certain goals one may have. Such goal directed behaviour may require collection and organization of large amounts of knowledge, which we believe computers should be good at. But we also believe that forgetting unimportant things is part of intelligent behaviour. Knowledge may be hard-wired, such as that of a weaver bird that builds the intricate nest, or the beaver that can build a dam; or it may be acquired through a process of learning, such as when human infants do. One might of course ask whether learning itself is hardwired, or is it an acquired skill. It is the ability to acquire knowledge in a specialized domain that we often feel is beyond the grasp of other animals. After all, who would not call a welldressed cigar-smoking rabbit who can talk English and beat everyone at chess, intelligent? Then there are the higher order faculties that we associate with intelligence. On