 of the earliest experimental psychologists, was interested in how people remember things and what they remember. His method of study was to make people listen to stories that, while looking normal on the surface, had some unrelated or illogical components. He hypothesized that what people remembered of the stories was what had matched the schemas containing summaries of familiar stories and situations that people carried in the heads. One of his celebrated stories called The War of the Ghosts (Bartlett, 1961) revealed that people tended to misunderstand the story and distort the parts that were misunderstood into something more familiar. Bartlett said that memory was composed by active organization and reconstruction of events, which were stored in an organized fashion rather than as individual episodes. Bartlett s idea that schemas are used to organize data and are used to anticipate what will be heard next was taken by Schank and Abelson in their notion of scripts described below in Section 14.5. Jean Piaget was more interested in learning. In particular, he was interested in discovering how children learn the concepts of space, time, logic and mathematics. His studies have had lasting impact on computer science and artificial intelligence. Seymour Papert used his theories for devising the Logo programming language in 1967 (Papert, 1980) (see also Harvey, (1997)). On the issue of how schemas develop, Piaget postulated that they develop only for those situations that happen often. Like Bartlett, he too assumed that people tend to squeeze in the situation into a known schema, a process that he called assimilation. But if that is not easily possible, then the schema has to adapt to the new situation by a process of accommodation. Over a period of time, schemas become more generalized and also new ones emerge to cater to different situations. Like Kant, Piaget also believed in the active role the mind plays in perception. According to him, individuals are not passive