d by searching for a path through the space from an initial state to a goal state. The process of solving the problem can usefully be modeled as a production system. In the rest of this section, we look at the problem of choosing the appropriate control structure for the production system so that the search can be as efficient as possible. 2.2.1 Control Strategies So far, we have completely ignored the question of how to decide which rule to apply next during the process of searching for a solution to a problem. This question arises since often more than one rule (and sometimes fewer than one rule) will have its left side match the current state. Even without a great deal of thought, it is clear that how such decisions are made will have a crucial impact on how quickly, and even whether, a problem is finally solved. The first requirement of a good control strategy is that it causes motion, Consider again the water jug problem of the last section. Suppose we implemented the simple control strategy of starting each time at the top of the list of rules and choosing the first applicable one. If we did that, we would never solve the problem. We would continue indefinitely filling the 4-gailon jug with water Control strategies that do not cause motion will never lead to a solution. The second requirement of a good control strategy is that it be systematic. Here is another simple control strategy for the water jug problem: On each cycle, choose at random from among the applicable rules. This strategy is better than the first. It causes motion. It will lead to a solution eventually. But we are likely to arrive at the same state several times during the process and to use many more steps than are necessary. Because the control strategy is not systematic, we may explore a particular useless sequence of operators several times before we finally find a solution. The requirement that a control strategy be systematic corresponds to the need for global motion (over the course of s