red
among them. Any square may be probed by the agent; instant death follows if a mine is
probed. Minesweeper indicates the presence of mines by revealing, in each probed square,
the number of mines that are directly or diagonally adjacent. The goal is to probe every
unminedsquare.
a. Let X be true iffsquare i,j contains amine. Write down the assertion that exactly
i,j
two mines are adjacent to 1,1 as a sentence involving some logical combination of
X propositions.
i,j
b. Generalize your assertion from (a) by explaining how to construct a CNF sentence
assertingthat kofnneighbors contain mines.
c. Explain precisely how an agent can use DPLL to prove that a given square does (or
doesnot)containamine,ignoring theglobal constraint thatthereareexactly M mines
inall.
d. Supposethattheglobalconstraint isconstructed fromyourmethodfrompart(b). How
does the number of clauses depend on M and N? Suggest a way to modify DPLL so
thattheglobalconstraint doesnotneedtoberepresented explicitly.
e. Are any conclusions derived by the method in part (c) invalidated when the global
constraint istakenintoaccount?
f. Give examples of configurations of probe values that induce long-range dependencies
such that the contents of a given unprobed square would give information about the
contentsofafar-distant square. (Hint: consideran N 1board.)
7.23 How long does it take to prove KB using DPLL when is a literal already
contained in KB? Explain.
7.24 Trace the behavior of DPLL on the knowledge base in Figure 7.16 when trying to
prove Q,andcomparethisbehaviorwiththatoftheforward-chaining algorithm.
7.25 Write a successor-state axiom for the Locked predicate, which applies to doors, as-
sumingtheonlyactionsavailable are Lock and Unlock.
7.26 Section 7.7.1 provides some of the successor-state axioms required for the wumpus
world. Writedownaxiomsforallremainingfluentsymbols.
7.27 Modify the HYBRID-WUMPUS-AGENT to use the 1-CNF logical state estimation
method described on page 271. We noted on that p