STEAL Associated with each planbox is the possible set of actions. If PAM hears next that Moe walked over to Calvin , it would go into a Bottom-up mode and figure out that walking over must be part of some plan Moe had to get control of Calvin s truck. PAM already realizes that there is a conflict between Moe wanting the truck and Calvin wanting to keep it, and would know that the conflict could be resolved in any way. Let us say Moe ASKs Calvin to hand over the truck and Calvin refuses. PAM would be expecting this to be a possibility and will explain that this is because Calvin wanted to keep his truck. If at some point in the story Moe were to THREATEN Calvin then PAM would know that Calvin has some more difficult options. If Calvin yields and hands over the truck, PAM would understand that he had conflicting goals of holding on to his truck or preserving his health and had chosen the more prudent option. OARWN PAM needs to know the relations between goals, plans and actions to understand stories. One can make things more interesting by creating characters of different types that use different planboxes in some order, for example bullies or honest people. Figure 14.18 shows some possible personality types with respect to the D-CONT goal. ASK EXPLAIN ASK THREATEN D-CONT ASK ASK ASK D-CONT lc THREATEN BARGAIN - THREATEN p-conr ASK EXPLA EXPLAIN EXPLAIN D-CONT QuIT D-CONT ae OVERPOWER 1 THREATEN EXPLAIN D-CONT D-cont - sTEAL OVERPOWER FIGURE 14.18 Different personality types may use different sequences of plans to try and achieve a D-CONT goal. The reader is invited to provide the other labels. To be able to understand stories with many goals and characters, PAM has a model of goal interactions. 1. Goal Subsumption When different goals of a person have a positive interaction. For example Anastasia went to Besant Nagar to book her tickets. While there, she also spent time on the beach and had her dinner at an eatery. 2. Goal Conflict When different goals of a characte