false else Val(a 8) if Val(o:) true and Val(B) true then Val(a A f) true else Val( A B) Validity, Satisfiability and Unsatisfiability ce or formula in logic falls into one of the following three classes. alid formulas. There are some formulas that are true independent of the valuation of their atomic con sh a formula is called a valid formula or a tautology. The simplest example is (P V-P) but ma nulas exist, for example (((P A Q) D R) (P D (QD R))). atisfiable formulas. Satisfiable formulas are those that can be made true by certain valuation functio rmula is also Known as a contingent formula. A simple example of this is ((P A Q) D R), which is ti ; true (amongst other satisfying valuations). nsatisfiable formulas. Unsatisfiable formulas or contradictions are formulas that cannot be made tru sation. The simplest example is (P A7P), but many more examples exist. In fact, for every formula co tology its negation -a is unsatisfiable. falidity (or unsatisfiability) of formulas can be evaluated by considering all possible valuation fun ch atomic proposition can be mapped to one of two values, true or false, if there are N proposit one will have to consider 2" different valuation functions to determine whether the formula is able). This is what one does by constructing a truth table. For satisfiable formulas, on the other h f we can find some valuation that makes it true. One may not have to inspect the entire truth tabl ed methods Hee" buinfRAly been used for solving the SAT problem as it is known (see Chapter 4). ty of formulas, or its converse unsatisfiability of formulas, is of special interest because logic is the uments. Logic is concerned with the notion of entailment. We illustrate this with an example. Con T Alice will go to college. U Alice likes chemistry. V Alice likes history. the given facts are, R) RA S)DT QV S) UAW) he goal or theorem to be proved is the proposition T. The sentences 1-5 are the premises and the s iclusion. We say that the sentence T is e