ake a good programmer? B: He s a great guy. Everyone likes him (c) A (ina store): Do you have any money? B (A s friend): What do you want to buy? . Winograd and Flores [1986] present an argument that it is wrong to attempt to make computers understand language. Analyze their arguments in light of what was said in this chapter. Gather text from known and reliable sources and make your own corpus. Analyze the corpus by finding the number and the different types of words within and their unigram and bigram probabilities. Using the information from exercise 15, try generating correct sentences using N-grams. Explain how you would use the above corpus as a database for spell checking? CHAPTER 16 PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED AI I not only use all the brains that I have, but all that [ can borrow. Woodrow Wilson (1856-1924), the twenty-eighth President of the United States Recent years have seen significant advances in parallel computation and distributed systems. What are the implications of these advances for Al? There are three main areas in which parallel and distributed architectures can contribute to the study of intelligent systems: Psychological modeling Improving efficiency Helping to organize systems in a modular fashion These areas are often overlapping and complementary. For example, consider the production system model that we described in Chapter 2. The ideas of short-term and long-term memory, independently operating productions, matching, and so forth first arose in the psychological literature. When researchers began building Al systems based on these principles, they realized that parallel] computers might be used to increase significantly the speed at which the systems could run. Even on single processor systems, however, the production system architecture tumed out to have many benefits over conventional programming. One benefit is better modularity. When rules operate more or less independently, it is easy to add, delete, or modify them without changing th