tence. e Case grammars, in which the structure that is built by the parser contains some semantic information, although further interpretation may also be necessary. Conceptual parsing, in which syntactic and semantic knowledge are combined into a single interpretation system that is driven by the semantic knowledge. In this approach, syntactic parsing is subordinated to semantic interpretation, which is usually used to set up strong expectations for particular sentence structures, Approximately compositional semantic interpretation, in which semantic processing is applied to the result of performing a syntactic parse. This can be done either incrementally, as constituents are built, or all at once, when a structure corresponding to a complete sentence has been built. In the following sections, we discuss each of these approaches. 15.3.1 Semantic Grammars A semantic grammar [Burton; 1976; Hendrix et al., 1978; Hendrix and Lewis, 1981] is a context-free grammar in which the choice of nonterminals and production rules is governed by semantic as well as syntactic function. In addition, there is usually a semantic action associated with each grammar rule. The result of parsing and applying all the associated semantic actions is the meaning of the sentence. This close coupling of semantic Natural Language Processing 303 Se AER RCTS EEL TSEC NTA actions to grammar rules works because the grammar rules themselves are designed around key semantic concepts. An example of a fragment of a semantic grammar is shown in Fig. 15.10. This grammar defines part of a simple interface to an operating System. Shown in braces under each rule is the semantic action that is taken when the rule is applied. The term value is used to refer to the value that is matched by the right-hand side of the rule. The dotted notation x.y should be read as the y attribute of the unit x. The result of a successful Parse using this grammar will be either a command or a query. S what is FILE-PROPERTY of FIL