knowledge base that is incomplete, although other problems also exist, such as the difficulty of representing continuous phenomena in a discrete system. Some solutions to these problems are presented in the remaining chapters in this part of the book. EXERCISES 1. Using facts 1-9 of Section 5.1, answer the question, Did Marcus hate Caesar? 2. In Section 5.3, we showed that given our facts, there were two ways to prove the statement nalive(Marcus, now). In Fig. 5.12(a) resolution proof corresponding to one of those methods is shown. Use resolution to derive another proof of the statement using the other chain of reasoning. 3. Trace the operation of the unification algorithm on each of the following pairs of literals: (a) f(Marcus) and f(Caesar) (b) f(x) mdf(g)) (c) f(Marcus, g(x, y)) andf(x, g(Caesar, Marcus)) 4. Consider the following sentences: John likes all kinds of food. Apples are food, Chicken is food. Anything anyone eats and isn t killed by is food. Bill eats peanuts and is still alive. e Sue eats everything Bill eats. (a) Translate these sentences into formulas in predicate logic. (b) Prove that John likes peanuts using backward chaining. (c) Convert the formulas of part a into clause form. (d) Prove that John tikes peanuts using resolution. (e) Use resolution to answer the question, What food does Sue eat? 5. Consider the following facts: The members of the Elm St. Bridge Club are Joe, Sally, Bill, and Ellen. Joe is married to Sally. Bill is Ellen s brother. The spouse of every married person in the club is also in the club. The last meeting of the club was at Joe s house. (a) Represent these facts in predicate logic. (b) From the facts given above, most people would be able to decide on the truth of the following additiona) statements: The last meeting of the club was at Saily s house. Ellen is not married. Can you construct resolution proofs to demonstrate the truth of each of these statements given the five facts listed above? Do so if possible. Otherwi