rol
the scheduling of operations for a spacecraft (Jonsson et al., 2000). REMOTE AGENT gen-
erated plansfrom high-level goals specified fromtheground andmonitored theexecution of
thoseplans detecting, diagnosing, andrecoveringfromproblemsastheyoccurred. Succes-
sorprogram MAPGEN (Al-Chang etal.,2004)plans thedailyoperations for NASA s Mars
Exploration Rovers,and MEXAR2(Cestaetal.,2007)didmissionplanning both logistics
andscienceplanning for the European Space Agency s Mars Expressmissionin2008.
Section1.5. Summary 29
Game playing: IBM s DEEP BLUE became the first computer program to defeat the
world champion in a chess match when it bested Garry Kasparov by a score of 3.5 to 2.5 in
anexhibition match (Goodman and Keene, 1997). Kasparov said that hefelt a new kind of
intelligence across the board from him. Newsweek magazine described the match as The
brain s last stand. The value of IBM s stock increased by 18 billion. Human champions
studied Kasparov s loss and were able to draw a few matches in subsequent years, but the
mostrecenthuman-computer matcheshavebeenwonconvincingly bythecomputer.
Spamfighting: Eachday,learningalgorithmsclassifyoverabillionmessagesasspam,
savingtherecipientfromhavingtowastetimedeletingwhat,formanyusers,couldcomprise
80 or90 ofallmessages,ifnotclassifiedawaybyalgorithms. Becausethespammersare
continually updating theirtactics, itisdifficultforastaticprogrammed approach tokeepup,
andlearning algorithmsworkbest(Sahami etal.,1998;Goodmanand Heckerman, 2004).
Logistics planning: During the Persian Gulf crisis of 1991, U.S. forces deployed a
Dynamic Analysis and Replanning Tool, DART (Cross and Walker, 1994), to doautomated
logistics planning and scheduling for transportation. This involved up to 50,000 vehicles,
cargo, and people at a time, and had to account for starting points, destinations, routes, and
conflict resolution among all parameters. The AI planning techniques generated in hours
a plan that would have taken weeks with older methods