ok, 1962). Knuth and Moore (1975)
proved the correctness ofalpha beta and analysed its timecomplexity. Pearl(1982b) shows
alpha beta tobeasymptotically optimalamongallfixed-depthgame-treesearchalgorithms.
Several attempts have been made to overcome the problems with the standard ap-
proach thatwereoutlined in Section5.8. Thefirstnonexhaustive heuristic searchalgorithm withsome theoretical grounding wasprobably B (Berliner, 1979), which attempts tomain-
tain interval bounds on the possible value of a node in the game tree rather than giving it
a single point-valued estimate. Leaf nodes are selected for expansion in an attempt to re- fine the top-level bounds until one move is clearly best. Palay (1985) extends the B idea
using probability distributions on values in place of intervals. David Mc Allester s (1988)
conspiracy number search expands leaf nodes that, by changing their values, could cause the program to prefer a new move at the root. MGSS (Russell and Wefald, 1989) uses the
decision-theoretic techniques of Chapter 16 to estimate the value of expanding each leaf in
terms of the expected improvement in decision quality at the root. It outplayed an alpha betaalgorithm at Othellodespite searching anorderofmagnitude fewernodes. The MGSS
approach is,inprinciple, applicable tothecontrolofanyformofdeliberation.
Alpha beta search is in many ways the two-player analog of depth-first branch-and- bound, which is dominated by A in the single-agent case. The SSS algorithm (Stockman, 1979) can be viewed as a two-player A and never expands more nodes than alpha beta to
reachthesamedecision. Thememoryrequirementsandcomputationaloverheadofthequeue make SSS in its original form impractical, but a linear-space version has been developed
from the RBF Salgorithm (Korf and Chickering, 1996). Plaat et al. (1996) developed a new viewof SSS asacombination ofalpha beta andtransposition tables, showinghowtoover-
come the drawbacks of the original algorithm and developing a new variant 