One followed by one hundred twenty zeroes. Let us make a rough estimate of how long it will take to inspect just the leaves, forgetting about the internal tree. Let us assume that we have a fast machine on which ten billion leaves can be examined every second. Thus, it will take 10110 seconds to examine 10129 nodes. Like in Chapter 2, we can conservatively assume a hundred thousand seconds in a day, and a thousand days in a year. We will then need 10192 years, or 101 ? (also known as a Googol) centuries. Compare this number with the total number of fundamental particles in the entire universe, which is estimated to be about 1075, and one can see that the task of inspecting 10129 nodes is clearly in the realm of the impossible, with due respect to all who think otherwise . Even if every one of these fundamental particles was a machine working in tandem with the others, it would still take 1027 years, which is much longer than the estimated age of the universe. - x x x O x x O x x x O Suaring pasion FIGURE 8.11 The game Noughts and Crosses is played on a 3 x 3 board. One player places a cross and the other a nought, alternately. The objective is to place three in a line first; row, column or diagonal. The first figure shows the empty board, the second a game one by Cross, and the third figure shows a drawn game. The back of the envelope analysis done above, gives us a couple of insights. First, that even toy problems can be computationally hard. This means that real world problems will be harder to solve, unless they are posed very tightly. That is, only the minimal key features of the problem are identified and abstracted. That is why problem formulation is important to successful problem solving. The second insight is that we humans still do tackle many complex problems. And we do it with the aid of knowledge. Knowledge thus, has to be a key component for problem solving, if we are to build intelligent agents. 8.1.2 The Evaluation Function Since we cannot inspect th