emperature. The second is the criteria that will be used to decide when the temperature of the system should be reduced. The third is the amount by which the temperature will be reduced each time it is changed. There may aiso be a fourth component of the schedule, namely, when to quit. Simulated annealing is often used to solve problems in which the number of moves from a given state is very Heuristic Search Techniques 57 large (such as the number of permutations that can be made to a proposed traveling salesman route). For such problems, tt may not make sense to try all possible moves. Instead, it may be useful to explolt.soine criterion involving the number of moves that have been tried since an improvement was found. Experiments that have been done with simulated annealing on a variety of problems suggest that the best way to select an annealing schedule is by trying several and observing the effect on both the quality of the solution that is found and the rate at which the process converges. To begin to get a feel for how to come up with a schedule, the first thing to notice is that as T approaches zero, the probability of accepting a move to a worse state goes to zero and simulated annealing becomes identical to simple hill climbing. The second thing to notice is that what really matters in computing the probability of accepting a move is the ratio AE/T. Thus it is important that values of 7 be scaled so that this ratio is meaningful. For example, 7 could be initialized to a value such that, for an average AE, p would be 0.5. Chapter 18 returns to simulated annealing in the context of neural networks. 3.3. BEST-FIRST SEARCH Until now, we have really only discussed two systematic control strategies, breadth-first search and depthfirst search (of several varieties). In this section, we discuss a new method, best-first search, which is a way of combining the advantages of both depth-first and breadth-first search into a single method. 3.3.1 OR Graphs Depth-first s