on to those approaches to problems that can guarantee optimality. We explore the use of heuristic knowledge to search for optimal solutions, and push the envelope of the size of problems that can be solved in a reasonable time with small space requirements. Further Reading Many of the topics covered in this chapter are research areas in their own right. Optimization is an active field of work, and stochastic local search methods have been studied in great detail. A comprehensive book on the topic is the book by Hoos and Stutzle (2005). An interesting account of problem solving methods is given in the book by Michalewicz and Fogel (2004). Goldberg has two books (1989, 2002) on genetic algorithms and innovation in design. Dorigo has a book on ant colony optimization (2004). There are several books on artificial neural networks. A popular one is the book by Hassoun (1996), and another by Yegnanarayana (1999). a) e Exercises 1. What do the terms exploitation and exploration refer to in the context of search? 2. Describe the Simulated Annealing algorithm. When does one prefer to use the algorithm? What is the role of the parameter temperature in the algorithm? 3. When does Simulated Annealing perform better than Hill Climbing? How is this better performance achieved? Would you ever prefer HC to SA? If yes, when? 4. Compare the performance of terated Hill Climbing, Simulated Annealing and Genetic Algorithm on the instance of Uniform Random k-SAT problems of Exercise 3.10. 5. What is the motivation and strategy behind Genetic Algorithms? Under what conditions are GAs likely to perform better than other optimization algorithms? 6. Experiment with different population sizes for the Genetic Algorithm for solving the SAT problem. Generate different Uniform Random k-SAT problems of different sizes. For each problem, generate different, random candidate solutions and apply Hill Climbing to each candidate before adding it to the population. Does the performance improve? In Sectio