ed. From the viewpoint of increasing diversity, the next case to be added to the set is the one with the highest relative diversity. We repeat the definition of relative diversity and quality below. RelDiversity(c, R) 1ifR Yi 1,m(1-sim(d, d;)) m , otherwise Here, m is the number of cases in R at that moment. Adding cases based only on the basis of relative diversity may retrieve cases that are not similar to the query. Hence, a measure named Quality that combines the two aspects of relative diversity and similarity with the query may be used. Quality(e, R) a sim(d, doye,) (1-a ) RelDiversity(c, R) Let the standard retrieval set (SRS) based on maximum similarity be called Rsgpg. Let the retrieval set, generated by an algorithm that also considers diversity, be Rp. Then the loss of similarity due to diversity being taken into account is, Lossp Lj). x SIN(Q, Copgi) K Zj 1, xSiM(Q, Cp;) K Lossp signifies the decrease in average similarity, due to diversity being taken into account, and can be controlled by the parameter a in the definition of Quality. The fact that relative diversity depends upon the partially constructed retrieval set means that one cannot choose the entire set in one pass. Instead, one can only choose one element in each pass. This element will in turn influence the choice of the next element to be selected. This means that one will have to make K passes over the case base to retrieve K cases. Since we anyway want to include (high) similarity as a retrieval criterion, the diversity criterion need only be applied to a subset of high similarity cases. That is, the K passed need be done only on the set of high similarity cases. Two algorithms have been reported in the literature. The Bounded Greedy (BG) algorithm (Bradley and Smyth, 2001), (Smyth and McClave, 2001) first selects a subset based on similarity, and then from this subset chooses cases based on diversity. The algorithm is given in Figure 15.32. Diversity-BG(q : query, CB : case base, k : retr