ively unambiguous, well specified and well-formed. The central concern in NLG is choosing between different ways of expressing the underlying content, driven by communication goals and an understanding of the mental models of the target audience. ) R 1. wo a N foo oo Exercises Identify two ways in which NLP systems can make life easier for people with disabilities. . Give a concrete example to show that there are English sentences that cannot be recognized by regular grammar. . The ambiguity shown in the sentence of Figure 16.10 is said to result from Prepositional Phrase Attachment, since the prepositional phrase attaches to a noun phrase in one parse and to a verb phrase in another. Give another example of a sentence which has three valid parses due to differing attachment of a prepositional phrase. Show clearly the parse trees corresponding to each disambiguation. Give an example to illustrate how Parts of Speech of context (neighbouring) words can be useful as features in Word Sense Disambiguation. . When your friend claims that LSI produces the best approximation to the original term document matrix, you would like to add two conditions to make her statement meaningful. What are these? In the context of morphology, which of parsing and generation is harder? Give an example to justify your answer. Name (a) one public domain tool that does morphological parsing, (b) one labelled corpus that can be used for supervised Word Sense Disambiguation, (c) one publicly available resource for estimating semantic relatedness between WordNet synsets, and (d) a treebank that is widely used in statistical Machine Translation. . Given four documents and pairwise distances between them in the vector space, their absolute positions in the vector space are known. True or false? Justify. A search engine is designed to work over a collection of 1000 documents. In response to a query Q, the system retrieves 20 documents, of which 15 are found to be relevant. It is known from human ju