two, their difference is halved.
Noticethatthe dividebytwo function hasafixedpoint, namelyzero,thatisunchanged by
the application ofthe function. Fromthis example, wecan discern twoimportant properties
ofcontractions: A contraction has only one fixed point; if there were two fixed points they would not
getclosertogetherwhenthefunction wasapplied, soitwouldnotbeacontraction. When the function is applied to any argument, the value must get closer to the fixed
point (because the fixedpoint does not move), so repeated application of acontraction
alwaysreachesthefixedpointinthelimit.
Now,supposeweviewthe Bellmanupdate(Equation(17.6))asanoperator B thatisapplied
simultaneously toupdate theutilityofeverystate. Let U denotethevectorofutilities forall
i
thestatesattheithiteration. Thenthe Bellmanupdateequationcanbewrittenas
U BU .
i 1 i
Next,weneedawaytomeasuredistancesbetweenutilityvectors. Wewillusethemaxnorm,
MAXNORM
whichmeasuresthe length ofavectorbytheabsolute value ofitsbiggest component: U max U(s) .
s
With this definition, the distance between two vectors, U U (cid:2) , is the maximum dif-
ference between any two corresponding elements. The main result of this section is the
(cid:2)
following: Let U and U beanytwoutilityvectors. Thenwehave
i i BU BU (cid:2) U U (cid:2) . (17.7)
i i i i
That is, the Bellman update is a contraction by a factor of on the space of utility vectors.
(Exercise17.6providessomeguidanceonprovingthisclaim.) Hence,fromthepropertiesof
contractions in general, it follows that value iteration always converges to a unique solution
ofthe Bellmanequations whenever 1.
Section17.2. Value Iteration 655
We can also use the contraction property to analyze the rate of convergence to a solu-
(cid:2)
tion. In particular, we can replace U in Equation (17.7) with the true utilities U, for which
i
BU U. Thenweobtaintheinequality BU U U U .
i i
So,ifweview U U astheerrorintheestimate U ,weseethattheerrorisreducedbya
i i
factorofatleast oneachiteration. Thismeans