ns the two clauses (father bob sam) (mother sue sam) When the match part of the cycle is attempted, a consistent match will be made between these two clauses and rules r7 and r8 in the knowledge base. The match is made by substituting Bob for ?x, Sam for ?z. and Sue for ?. Consequently. since all the conditions on the left of both r7 and r8 are satisfied, these two rules will be placed in the conflict set. If there are no other working memory clauses to match, the selection step is executed next. Suppose, for one or more ofthe selection criteria stated above, r7 is the rule chosen to execute. The clause on the right side of r7 is instantiated and the execution step is initiated. The execution step may result in the right-hand clause (husband bob sue) being placed in working memory or it may be used to trigger a message to the user. Following the execution step. the match-select-execute cycle is repeated. - 334 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 e Working It 1fl Im Or Y1 1 conflict I 2 MIW I X11t* Figure 15.3 The production system inference cycle. As another example of matching, mppose the two facts (a6 (father sam bill)) and (a7 (father bill pam)) have been added to the knowledge base and the immediate goal is a query about Pam's grandfather. When made, assume this query has resulted in placement of the clause (grandfather ?x pam) into working memory. For this goal to succeed, consistent substitutions must be made for the variables ?x and ?v in rule r9 with a6 and a7. This will be the case if Sam and Bill are substituted for ?x and ?v in the subgoal left-hand conditions of r9. The right hand side will then correctly state that Pam's grandfather is Sam. - When the left side of a sequence of rules is instantiated first and the rules are executed from left to right, the process is called forward chaining. This is also known as data-driven inference since input data are used to guide the direction of the inference process. For example, we can chain forward to show th