often subconsciously; and have the ability to latch onto a good idea when it does emerge. We look at some of the evidence reported below. The French mathematician Hadamard (1954) has attributed innovation and discovery to recombination in a pool of ideas We shall see a little later that the possibility of imputing discovery to pure chance is already excluded....Indeed, it is obvious that invention or discovery, be it in mathematics or anywhere else, takes place by combining ideas . He also quotes the French poet Paul Val ry who argued, t takes two to invent anything. The one makes up combinations: the other chooses ... what is important to him in the mass of the things which the former has imparted to him. This statement describes the two processes of recombination and selection succinctly. Recent work employing techniques from psychology and brain imaging has shown that a key ingredient to creativity is the ability to handle many diverse kinds of ideas together, allowing them to cross fertilize each other. Our normal thinking processes are tuned to focusing on relevant matters and ignoring information that may be irrelevant to the task at hand. This process of ignoring irrelevant inputs is called latent inhibition. With high levels of latent inhibition, a person can pursue a task with a single mindedness that is a highly valued trait. The work done in Harvard University by a team led by Shelley Carson, a Harvard psychologist, reports a study that reveals that people with low levels of latent inhibition are the ones who can combine ideas creatively (Carson, 2003). Interestingly, low levels of latent inhibition are also related to psychotic conditions. Scientists have wondered for a long time why madness and creativity seem linked, particularly in artists, musicians, and writers. ... Our research results indicate that low levels of latent inhibition and exceptional flexibility in thought predispose people to mental illness under some conditions, and to creative accom