 out to have many benefits over conventional programming. One benefit is better modularity. When rules operate more or less independently, it is easy to add, delete, or modify them without changing the structure of the entire program. In this chapter, we discuss all these issues. First we briefly discuss psychological modeling. Then, in the following two sections we present some specific techniques that can be exploited in constructing parallel and distributed reasoning systems. 16.1 PSYCHOLOGICAL MODELING The production system was originally proposed as a model of human information processing, and it continues to play a role in psychological modeling. Some production system models stress the sequential nature of production systems, i.e., the manner in which short-term memory is modified over time by the rules. Other models stress the parallel aspect, in which all productions match and fire simultaneously, no matter how many there are. Both types of models have been used to explain timing data from experiments on human problem solving. 334 Artificial Intelligence ee ee mamamemanl SOAR [Laird et ai., 1987] is the production system architecture that we mentioned in Chapter 6. SOAR has a dual mission. On the one hand, it is intended as an architecture for building integrated Al systems; on the other hand, it is intended as a model of human intelligence [Neweil, 1991]. SOAR incorporates both sequential and parallel aspects of production systems by operating in cycles. In the elaboration phase of the processing cycle, productions fire in parallel. In the decision phase, operators and states are chosen, and working memory is modified, thus setting the stage for another elaboration phase. By tying these phases to particular timings, SOAR accounts for a number of psychological phenomena. Another approach to psychological modeling draws its inspiration from the physical organization of the human brain itself. While individual neurons are quite slow compared to digital comput