ion enabling this type of query to be solved efficiently in all
cases in logic systems? (Hint: Remember that two cars of the same year and model
havethesameprice.)
12.22 One might suppose that the syntactic distinction between unboxed links and singly
boxed links in semantic networks is unnecessary, because singly boxed links are always at-
tached to categories; an inheritance algorithm could simply assume that an unboxed link
attached to a category is intended to apply to all members of that category. Show that this
argumentisfallacious, givingexamplesoferrorsthatwouldarise.
12.23 One part of the shopping process that was not covered in this chapter is checking
forcompatibility between items. Forexample, ifadigital cameraisordered, whataccessory
batteries, memorycards,andcasesarecompatiblewiththecamera? Writeaknowledgebase
thatcandetermine thecompatibility ofasetofitemsandsuggest replacements oradditional
itemsiftheshoppermakesachoicethatisnotcompatible. Theknowledgebaseshouldworks
withatleastonelineofproductsandextendeasilytootherlines.
12.24 A complete solution to the problem of inexact matches to the buyer s description
in shopping is very difficult and requires a full array of natural language processing and
Exercises 479
information retrieval techniques. (See Chapters 22 and 23.) One small step is to allow the
usertospecifyminimumandmaximumvaluesforvariousattributes. Thebuyermustusethe
followinggrammarforproductdescriptions:
Description Category Connector Modifier Connector with and , Modifier Attribute Attribute Op Value
Op Here, Category names a product category, Attribute is some feature such as CPU or price, and Value isthetargetvaluefortheattribute. Sothequery computer withatleasta
2.5GHz CP Uforunder 500 mustbere-expressed as computer with CPU 2.5GHzand
price 500. Implementashopping agentthatacceptsdescriptions inthislanguage.
12.25 Ourdescriptionof Internetshoppingomittedtheall-importantstepofactuallybuying
the product. Provide a formal logical descript