would be a totally separate assertion, and we would not be able to draw any conclusions about similarities between Socrates and Plato. It would be much better to represent these facts as: MAN(SOCRATES) MAN(PLATO) since now the structure of the representation reflects the structure of the knowledge itself. But to do that, we need to be able to use predicates app)ied to arguments. We are in even more difficulty if we try to Tepresent the equally classic sentence All men are mortal. We could represent this as: MORTALMAN 100 Artificial Intelligence e T SN SAUEINE ENTRY TERNAL RN But that fails to capture the relationship between any individual being a man and that individual being a mortal. To do that, we really need variables and quantification unless we are willing to write separate statements about the mortality of every known man. So we appear to be forced to move to first-order predicate logic (or just predicate logic, since we do not discuss higher order theories in this chapter) as a way of representing knowledge because it permits representations of things that cannot reasonably be represented in prepositional logic. In predicate logic, we can represent rea]-world facts as statements written as wif s. But a major motivation for choosing to use Icgic at all is that if we use logical statements as a way of representing knowledge, then we have available a good way of reasoning with that knowledge. Determining the validity of a proposition in propositional logic is straightforward, although it may be computationally hard. So before we adopt predicate logic as a good medium for representing knowledge, we need to ask whether it also provides a good way of reasoning with the knowledge. At first glance, the answer is yes. It provides a way of deducing new statements from old ones. Unfortunately, however, unlike propositional logic, it does not possess a decision procedure, even an exponential one. There do exist procedures that will find a proof of a proposed theorem if