 high enough to bar complete analysis and bring in the role of judgment in the form of evaluation. A complete analysis of Checkers was done in 2007 though. Perfect play by both sides leads to a draw. (Schaeffer, 2007). A combination of evaluation and look-ahead has been good enough to implement programs to best human champions in Checkers and Chess, but Go is still beyond the pale of these techniques. These games have demonstrated the limits of search, even in these small finite worlds. Scrabble and Backgammon are two of the most popular games that are different from the complete information games like Chess and Go. Both these games have had the distinction of computer implementations that are better than human players. Both rely on machine learning methods to learn evaluation of positions. Scrabble also benefits from the large vocabulary that a program can have access to. Both benefit from being able to search many possibilities very quickly. While both rely on the knowledge of evaluation, Backgammon has also demonstrated that human knowledge, even of the experts, can be fallible. Computer implementations of games like Backgammon and Othello have changed the way humans play these games. Bridge is still a challenge. This is probably because this is a multiplayer, two-stage game. A player, by herself, cannot decide upon a winning strategy. The best moves have to be found in a concerted manner by the two players in the partnership. This involves planning for formal communication, understanding, interception and deception that contribute to the decision making for the play itself. It requires the ability to make inferences and to do probabilistic reasoning. It probably offers a domain for the integration of various artificial intelligence techniques. There are many other games that have evinced interest from enthusiasts and Al aficionados. A special issue of the journal Artificial Intelligence (volume 134, numbers 1-2, 2002) gives a wider selection. We have only looked