to these issues in Chapter 21. 284 Artificial Intelligence ee eee emmmnmintiinneenall EXERCISES a L e A TL HEL ee APTS ENR MR NT A RY ABI SSE NA AISLE FET LEONI A 1. n N > SIMD Nats Fe One of the reasons that understanding complex perceptual patterns is difficult is that if the pattern is composed of more than one object, a variety of difficultto-predict phenomena may occur at the junctions between objects. For example, when the phrase Could you go? is spoken, ay sound appears between the words, could and you. Give another example of boundary interference in speech. Also give one example of it in vision. Which of the following figures are trihedral? FPF ) =p In Section 14.3, we analyzed all the ways that a vertex of a trihedral object that occupies one octant of the space formed by the intersection of its planes could be labeled. Complete this analysis for vertices of objects that occupy two through seven octants. For each of the drawings in Fig. 14.10, show how the Waltz algorithm would produce a labeling. In our description of the Waltz algorithm, we first assigned to each vertex V all the labelings that might be attached to it. Then we looked at all adjacent vertices in an attempt to constrain the set of labelings associated with V. And then we went back to each adjacent vertex A to see if the knowledge about V could be used to further constrain the labelings for A. Why could we not simply visit each adjacent vertex once and perform both these steps then? Give an example of an ambiguous figure for which the Waltz algorithm would not find a unique labeling. CHAPTER 1 RE Ret NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING SET The man who Knows no foreign language Knows nothing of his mother tongue. Johann Wolfgang von Geoethe (1749-1832), German poet. novelist, playwright and philosopher Language is meant for communicating about the world. By studying language, we can come to understand more about the world. We can test our theories about the world by how well they support our attempt