approaches are the following: Index the structures directly by the significant English words that can be used to describe them. For example, let each verb have associated with it a structure that describes its meaning. This is the approach taken in conceptual dependency theory, discussed in Chapter 10. Even for selecting simple structures, such as those representing the meanings of individual words, though, this approach may not be adequate, since many words may have several distinct meanings. For example, the word fly has a different meaning in each of the following sentences: John flew to New York. (He rode in a plane from one place to another.) John flew a kite. (He held a kite that was up in the air.) John flew down the street. (He moved very rapidly.) ~ John fiew into a rage. (An idiom) Another problem with this approach is that it is only useful when there is an English description of the problem to be solved. Consider each major concept as a pointer to all of the structures (such as scripts) in which it might be involved. This may produce several sets of prospective structures. For example, the concept Steak might point to two scripts, one for restaurant and one for supermarket. The concept Bill might point to a restaurant and a shopping script. Take the intersection of those sets to get the structure(s), preferably precisely one, that involves all the content words. Given the pointers just described and the story about John s trip to Steak and Ale, the restaurant script would be evoked. One important problem with this method is that if the problem description contains any even slightly extraneous concepts. then the intersection of their associated structures will be empty. This might occur if we had said. for example, John rode his bicycle to Steak and Ale last night. Another problem is that it may require a great deal of computation to compute all of the possibility sets and then to intersect them. However, if computing such sets and intersecting them could