ntain the Clear predicate properly. Show how conditional
effectscanbeusedtorepresent bothofthesecaseswithasingleaction.
11.10 Conditionaleffectswereillustratedforthe Suck actioninthevacuumworld which
squarebecomescleandependsonwhichsquaretherobotisin. Canyouthinkofanewsetof
propositional variables todefinestatesofthevacuum world, suchthat Suck hasanuncondi-
tional description? Writeout thedescriptions of Suck,Left,and Right,using yourproposi-
tions,anddemonstrate thattheysufficetodescribeallpossible statesoftheworld.
11.11 Find a suitably dirty carpet, free of obstacles, and vacuum it. Draw the path taken
by the vacuum cleaner as accurately as you can. Explain it, with reference to the forms of
planning discussed inthischapter.
11.12 To the medication problem in the previous exercise, add a Test action that has the
conditional effect Culture Growth when Disease is true and in any case has the perceptual
effect Known(Culture Growth). Diagram a conditional plan that solves the problem and
minimizestheuseofthe Medicate action.
12
KNOWLEDGE
REPRESENTATION
In which we show how to use first-order logic to represent the most important
aspectsoftherealworld,suchasaction, space,time,thoughts, andshopping.
The previous chapters described the technology for knowledge-based agents: the syntax,
semantics, andproof theoryofpropositional andfirst-orderlogic, andtheimplementation of
agents that use these logics. In this chapter we address the question of what content to put
intosuchanagent sknowledge base howtorepresent factsabouttheworld.
Section 12.1 introduces the idea of a general ontology, which organizes everything in
the world into a hierarchy of categories. Section 12.2 covers the basic categories of objects,
substances, andmeasures;Section12.3coversevents,and Section12.4discussesknowledge
about beliefs. We then return to consider the technology for reasoning with this content:
Section 12.5 discusses reasoning systems designed for efficient inference with categories,
and Se