 only those cells that recognize the antigenic material proliferate and differentiate to augment the attack. Both Tand B-cells undergo clonal expansion but in different ways. T-cells secrete lymphokines'? which are chemicals that augment the growth of the T-cells as also mobilize other immune system components. Such cells (7, cells) act as lethal weapons and kill the antigens even on contact. These effects serve the purpose of eliminating the invading antigen. B-cells undergo somatic mutation, a form of controlled mutation during their reproduction and their effector cells actively secrete antibodies. The mutation allows for generation of a diverse repertoire of lymphocytes thereby increasing the efficiency of recognition. QO GO Binding wi with Negalve on Memory cells self antigen y OQrsr Oe? Cr me Match SY Ox Fo. OROBAKG + Ore = Ore Or Mismatch OL, saan Fig. 24.6 Clonal Selection and Deletion Figure 24.6 shows how the B-cell replicates on recognizing an antigenic material. A B-cell having a receptor that recognizes the self cell is eliminated (negative selection}. This however occurs in the early stages of development, as already mentioned. When a mature lymphocyte detects the epitope of an antigen, it is activated and proliferates to produce clones. While some of these become effector cells and generate the Artificial Immune Systems 485 plasma cells, a few differentiate to become what are termed as memory cells. The memory cell is later used to hasten the attack when the same or a similar antigen infects the body again at a later stage in its life. 24.8 LEARNING The generation of a population of lymphocytes that have high affinities to the antigen under consideration could be looked upon as a learning phase of an immune system. Given a repertoire of random recognition capabilities, the clonal expansion yields, a more specific repertoire that can effectively tackle a specific invasion. The expansion also yields memory cells that aid in the rapid growth of specific 