 minimax algorithm can
selectoptimalmovesbyadepth-firstenumeration ofthegametree. The alpha beta search algorithm computes the same optimal move as minimax, but
achievesmuchgreaterefficiencybyeliminating subtreesthatareprovablyirrelevant. Usually,itisnotfeasibletoconsiderthewholegametree(evenwithalpha beta),sowe
190 Chapter 5. Adversarial Search
need tocutthe search offatsomepoint andapply aheuristic evaluation function that
estimatestheutilityofastate. Manygameprogramsprecompute tablesofbestmovesintheopening andendgameso
thattheycanlookupamoveratherthansearch. Games of chance can be handled by an extension to the minimax algorithm that eval-
uates a chance node by taking the average utility of all its children, weighted by the
probability ofeachchild. Optimal play in games of imperfect information, such as Kriegspiel and bridge, re-
quires reasoning about the current and future belief states of each player. A simple
approximation can be obtained by averaging the value of an action over each possible
configuration ofmissinginformation. Programshavebestedevenchampionhumanplayers atgamessuchaschess,checkers,
and Othello. Humans retain the edge in several games of imperfect information, such
as poker, bridge, and Kriegspiel, and in games with very large branching factors and
littlegoodheuristicknowledge, suchas Go.
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL AND HISTORICAL NOTES
The early history of mechanical game playing was marred by numerous frauds. The most
notoriousofthesewas Baron Wolfgangvon Kempelen s(1734 1804) The Turk, asupposed
chess-playing automaton that defeated Napoleon before being exposed as amagician s trick
cabinet housing a human chess expert (see Levitt, 2000). It played from 1769 to 1854. In
1846, Charles Babbage (who had been fascinated by the Turk) appears to have contributed
the first serious discussion of the feasibility of computer chess and checkers (Morrison and
Morrison,1961). Hedidnotunderstandtheexponentialcomplexityofsearchtrees,claiming the combinations involve