ut ourselves. The real wonder though is that we can have a notion at all! Creatures can somehow think about things; about the world around them; and about themselves. The notion of self is possible only when notions are possible in the first place. And when notions about the self and the world become possible then creatures can act purposefully and intelligently, increasing the chances of their own survival. Minds in bodies have, for long, confounded thinkers. Philosophers across cultures and times have grappled with the nature of reality and the relation between the mind, that perceives the reality, and the body, that is presumably real. Indian philosophers starting with Gotama (in 6" century sce ), Vatsyayana (2"4 century BcE), Vacaspati Misra (9'" century cE) up to Madhusadana Sarasvati (16'" century cE) have explored the notion of mindbody dualism (Chakrabarti, 1999). European philosophers too, including Thomas Hobbes (16'" century), Ren Descartes (16'" century) and David Hume, (18" century), have struggled to understand how we can have minds (Haugeland, 1985). Idealism says that everything is in the domains of minds, or ideas, and that matter is an illusion. The opposite more prevalent view, materialism, is that everything is matter and that mind is a construct of the activity in the physical brain. Recent progress in biology, neuroscience and computer sciences have reinforced the notion that thinking is some kind of a process that happens in a body that emerges as a whole from the constituent parts. And the seat of thought is the brain. It has also been hypothesized that the mind itself emerges from a combination of simple mental faculties (Minsky, 86). And all this happens in the brain. The human brain has been described as the most complex piece of matter in the universe (Ramachandran, 2003). While we still do not know how the brain creates the mind, represents information, and allows us to reason, we do have consensus that the brain is made up of a large nu