te a connection between two systems having IP addresses 488 Artificial Intelligence AERATOR RE ARLEN ART 23.23.7.30 and 23.23.7.40 using the port number 40. Thus each of the connections is defined by such unique 49-bit numbers. Using 49 bits one could imagine a network with 2 connections. However not all are part of the actual network. Those that are part of the network, form the Se/f (Self Set) while the rest form the Non seff. Which ones are the se/fdepends on the frequencies with which they occur; those occurring at lesser frequencies (i.e. those not normally observed) in the network are categorized as nonself. A detector is thus a 49-bit string that is compared with those generated by the network. The set of self cells is generated dynamically based on a mobile detector. This detector which acts much like the Tand B-cells moves from one node (computer) to the other in the network. The detector set is generated by using negative selection. Each 49-bit string that represents a detector is generated randomly. These detectors that are exposed to the strings (self and non self) generated by the network system, mature based on some conditions outlined below (i) Lf the detector is capable of recognition within a certain time period 7, then it is discarded (negative selection). Recognition, in this case, means the network generated a string which is identical to this detector. Hence both the network generated string and the detector are of the self category. If no string is detected during the time period 7, then it is categorized as a mature detector. Mature detectors have to exceed the cross reactivity threshold to survive. This threshold is generally calculated using the Hamming distance between two contiguous pieces of the strings that have a predetermined width. Table 24.2 depicts some methods to calculate this for two 8-bit strings. It may be observed that the two strings are dissimilar in the two regions (designated r) which indicate the potential of the generate