emergedoverthepastfiftyyearsof AI
researchandthepasttwomillenniaofrelatedwork. Wehavetriedtoavoidexcessiveformal-
ityinthepresentationoftheseideaswhileretainingprecision. Wehaveincludedpseudocode
algorithms tomakethekeyideasconcrete; ourpseudocode is described in Appendix B.
Thisbookisprimarilyintendedforuseinanundergraduate courseorcoursesequence.
The book has 27 chapters, each requiring about a week s worth of lectures, so working
through the whole book requires a two-semester sequence. A one-semester course can use
selected chapters to suit the interests of the instructor and students. The book can also be
used in a graduate-level course (perhaps with the addition of some of the primary sources
suggested in the bibliographical notes). Sample syllabi are available at the book s Web site,
aima.cs.berkeley.edu. The only prerequisite is familiarity with basic concepts of
computer science (algorithms, data structures, complexity) at a sophomore level. Freshman
calculusandlinearalgebraareusefulforsomeofthetopics;therequiredmathematicalback-
groundissuppliedin Appendix A.
Exercises are given at the end of each chapter. Exercises requiring significant pro-
gramming are marked with a keyboard icon. These exercises can best be solved by taking
advantage of the code repository at aima.cs.berkeley.edu. Some of them are large
enough to be considered term projects. A numberof exercises require some investigation of
theliterature; thesearemarkedwitha bookicon.
Throughout the book, important points are marked with a pointing icon. We have in-
cluded an extensive index of around 6,000 items to make it easy to find things in the book.
Wherevera newtermisfirstdefined,itisalsomarkedinthemargin.
NEWTERM
About the Web site
aima.cs.berkeley.edu,the Websiteforthebook,contains implementations ofthealgorithmsinthebookinseveralprogramming languages, a list of over 1000 schools that have used the book, many with links to online course
materialsandsyllabi, anannotated listofover800linkstosit