potentially
Section14.2. The Semanticsof Bayesian Networks 513
infinite set of circumstances in which the alarm might fail to go off (high humidity, power
failure, dead battery, cut wires, a dead mouse stuck inside the bell, etc.) or John or Mary
mightfailtocallandreportit(outtolunch,onvacation,temporarilydeaf,passinghelicopter,
etc.). Inthisway,asmallagentcancopewithaverylargeworld,atleastapproximately. The
degreeofapproximation canbeimprovedifweintroduce additional relevantinformation.
14.2 THE SEMANTICS OF BAYESIAN NETWORKS
The previous section described what a network is, but not what it means. There are two
ways in which one can understand the semantics of Bayesian networks. The first is to see
the network as a representation of the joint probability distribution. The second is to view
itas an encoding ofacollection ofconditional independence statements. Thetwoviews are
equivalent, but the first turns out to be helpful in understanding how to construct networks,
whereasthesecond ishelpfulindesigning inference procedures.
14.2.1 Representing the full jointdistribution
Viewed as a piece of syntax, a Bayesian network is a directed acyclic graph with some
numeric parameters attached to each node. One way to define what the network means its
semantics istodefinethewayinwhichitrepresentsaspecificjointdistribution overallthe
variables. Todothis, wefirstneedtoretract (temporarily) whatwesaidearlieraboutthepa-
rametersassociated witheachnode. Wesaidthatthoseparameterscorrespond toconditional
probabilities P(X Parents(X )); this is atrue statement, but until weassign semantics to
i i
thenetworkasawhole,weshould thinkofthemjustasnumbers (X Parents(X )).
i i
Ageneric entry inthejointdistribution istheprobability ofaconjunction ofparticular
assignments to each variable, such as P(X x ... X x ). We use the notation
1 1 n n
P(x ,...,x )asanabbreviation forthis. Thevalueofthisentryisgivenbytheformula
1 n
(cid:25)n
P(x ,...,x ) (x parents(X )), (14.1)
1 n i i
i 1
where parents(