se whose eventual success still needs to be determined by further research, both theoretical and empirical. Since the ultimate goal of Al is the construction of programs that solve hard problems, no study of Al is complete without some experience writing programs. Most AI programs are written in LISP, PROLOG, or some specialized AI shell. Recently though, as AI has spread out into the mainstream computing world, Al programs are being written in a wide variety of programming languages. The algorithms presented in this book are described in sufficient detail to enable students to exploit them in their programs, but they are not expressed in code. This book should probably be supplemented with a good book on whatever language is being used for programming in the course. This book would not have happened without the help of many people. The content of the manuscript has been greatly improved by the comments of Srinivas Akella, Jim Blevins, Clay Bridges, R. Martin Chavez, Alan Cline, Adam Farquar, Anwar Ghuloum, Yolanda Gil, R. V. Guha, Lucy Hadden, Ajay Jain, Craig Knoblock, John Laird, Clifford Mercer, Michael Newton, Charles Petrie, Robert Rich, Steve Shafer, Reid Simmons, Herbert Simon, Munindar Singh, Milind Tambe, David Touretzky, Manuela Veloso, David Wroblewski, and Marco Zagha. Special thanks to Yolanda Gil and Alan Cline for help above and beyond. Yolanda kept the project going under desperate circumstances, and Alan spent innumerable hours designing the cover and bringing it into the world. We hank them for these things and much, much more. Linda Mitchell helped us put together many draft editions along the way. Some of those drafts were used in actual courses, where students found innumerable bugs for us. We would like to thank them as well as their instructors, Tom Mitchell and Jean Scholtz. Thanks also to Don Speray for his help in producing the cover. David Shapiro and Joe Murphy deserve credit for superb editing, and for keeping us on schedule. We would a