tement, "If x is an adult and it is consistent to assume that x can drive, then infer that x can drive." Using the above formula this would be represented as ADULT(x) MDRJVE(x) DRIVE(x) Default theories consist of a set of axioms and set of default inference rules with schemata like formula 5.1. The theorems derivable from a default system are those that follow from first-order logic and the assumptions assumed from the default rules. Suppose a KB contains only the statements BIRD(9: MFLY(x) FLY(x) BLRD(tweety) A default proof of FLY(tweety) is possible. But if KB also contains the clauses OSTh ICH(tweety) OSTRICH(x) -* FLY(i) FLY(tweety) would be blocked since the default is now inconsistent. Default rules are especially useful in hierarchial KBs. Because the default rules are transitive, property inheritance becomes possible. For example, in a heirarchy of living things, any animal could inherit the property has-heart from the rule Yx ANIMAL(x) -' HAS-HEART(x) Sec. 5.3 Default Reasoning and the Closed World Assumption Transitivity can also be a problem in KBs with many default rules. Rule interactions can make representations very complex. Therefore caution is needed in implementing such systems. Closed World Assmption Another form of assum )tion, made with regard to incomplete knowledge, is more global in nature than single defaults. This type of assumption is useful in applications where most of the facts are known, and it is, therefore, reasonable to assume that if a proposition cannot be prtven, it is false. This is known as the closed world assumption (CWA) with failure as negation (failure to prove a statement F results in assuming its negation, F). This means that in a KB if the ground literal P(a) is not provable, then P(a) is assumed to hold. A classic example where this type of assumption is reasonable is in an airline KB application where city-to-city fligh..(S, not explicitly entered or provable, are assumed not to exist. Thus. CONNECT('oston.van-horn)