ibed in Section 15.3.4. 15.3.3. Conceptual Parsing Conceptual parsing, like semantic grammars, is a strategy for finding both the structure and the meaning of a sentence in one step. Conceptual parsing is driven by a dictionary that describes the meanings of words as conceptual dependency (CD) structures. Parsing a sentence into a conceptual dependency representation is similar to the process of parsing using a case grammar. In both systems, the parsing process is heavily driven by a set of expectations that are set up on the basis of the sentence s main verb. But because the representation of a verb in CD is at a lower level than that of a verb in a case grammar (in which the representation is often identical to the English word that is used), CD usually provides a greater degree of predictive power. The first step in mapping a sentence into its CD representation involves a syntactic processor that extracts the main noun and verb. It also determines the syntactic category and aspectual class of the verb (i.e., stative, transitive, or intransitive). The conceptual processor then takes over. It makes use of a verb-ACT dictionary, which contains an entry for each environment in which a verb can appear. Figure 15.15 (taken from Schank [ 1973]) shows the dictionary entries associated with the verb want. These three entries correspond to the three kinds of wanting: main noun abject want stative cf a human cf x &> pleased transitive cf o, RI** human j RY physobj one <> ATRANS =~ Y ~~ one cf x &> pleased intransitive cf D pr here h h a man uman Y <> PTRANS Y _ y cf x &> pleased Fig. 15.15 The Verb-ACT Dictionary 308 Artificial Intelligence SSS CE ETT e Wanting something to happen Wanting an object Wanting a person Once the correct dictionary entry is chosen, the conceptual processor analyzes the rest of the sentence looking for components that will fit into the empty slots of the verb structure. For example, if the stative form of want has been found, then the conceptual p