 looks at the end of each cycle. Assume a FUTILITY value of 45. Clearly mark the final solution (by double-lined arcs) in the final graph. What is the solution that is going to be found by AO on the accompanying graph (Figure 6.25) from (Rich and Knight, 1991)? Comment on the solution. Is it the optimal solution? State the assumptions your answer is based on. s 5) cost st cost Figure 6.25 A problem with nonzero cost of SOLVED nodes. 5. In the AO graph of Figure 6.26, the SOLVED nodes along with their costs are shown with double circles. Labels on internal nodes are heuristic values. Assume each edge has a cost 10. Show how the algorithm AO will solve this graph. Show each expansion clearly and highlight the final solution. Is the algorithm guaranteed to find the optimal solution for this problem? Justify your answer. Figure 6.26 Another AO graph. The solved nodes, shown in double circles, have a cost associated with them. Values in internal nodes are heuristic estimates of cost. 6. The problem graph in Figure 6.27 is similar to the graph in Figure 6.26, but with a different set of values. How would AO perform on the new problem? ith a different set of values. Figure 6.27 The problem from Figure 6.26 7. Rete Net. Write a program to read in a set of rules in a given format and construct a Rete Net for the rules. Show the Rete Net in a graphical form. Note that each node must have an associated memory to store tokens. The user should be able to query for the instances of matching rules. 8. Forward Chaining System. Read a set of rules (program) from a file (or the keyboard). Call the program for constructing the Rete Net. Read a set of working memory elements from a file (or the keyboard). Accept a command (run N), and execute N cycles of Match-ResolveExecute. Accept a command (run) to do the same in an infinite loop. Include the following set of actions in rules. (1) Read a file containing WMEs, (2) Print a message on the screen (or a file), and (3) Halt stop the cycle