 and the a! quantifier . They are used to quantify the values a variable can take. Finally one may include thi as equals . on-logical part of FOL constitutes of three sets. 0, et of predicate symbols P P1, P2, P3, . We also use the symbols P, Q, R, ... . More commonl ds like Man , Mortal , GreaterThan . Each symbol has an arity associated with it, that stand iber of arguments the predicate takes. ot of function symbols F f,, fo, f3, -- . We commonly used the symbols f, g, h... or words like St Sum . Each function symbol has an arity that denotes the number of argument it takes. et of constant symbols C c; C2, C3, ... . We often used symbols like 0 , or Socrates , or Darjee meaningful to us. iree sets define a specific language L(P, F, C). asic constituents of FOL expressions are terms. The set of terms 3 of L(P, F, C) is defined as foll s and the variables are terms by definition. More terms are defined using the function symbols. Ifte Vthente 3 Ifte Cthente 3 If ty, to, ..., ty Sand fe F is an n-place function symbol then f(ty, to, ..., tp) J et of formulas is defined using terms and predicate symbols. By default the logical symbols -L an ulas. The set of well formed formulas F of L(P, F, C) is defined as follows. c formulas Ler TeF If ty, tp Jthen (t, f) F If ty, to, ..., tf) Sand P Bis an n-place predicate symbol then P(ty, ta, ..., t,) F Formulas2 . Ifa e Fthen 7a F Ifa, Be Fthen(a A B)eF Ifa, B Fthen(a V Ble F Ifa, Be Fthen (a D B)e F 1 the quantifiers are used to define formulas as well. A quantifier quantifies a variable that occu the quantifier, which is the formula immediately following it. Ifa Fand x Fthen Vx (a)eF Ifa e Fandxe Vthen 3x (a)eF g defined the set of formulas of FOL we can now define the set of sentences Sro,. et of sentences Sro, in a language L(P, F, C) are all formulas without free variables. A variable in t is not in the scope of any quantifier. FOLSemantics llest unit in prepasitianallegic is the sentence. The sentence can stand for somet