essing 313 processing is a set of region descriptions (data structures). Such structures are used as the input to the final high-level image processing stage. A summary of the data structures produced from the lowest processing stage to the final interpretation stage then can be depicted as follows. Scene t Objects t Regions t Edges or subregions t Pixels Marr's Theory of Vision David Man and his colleagues (1982, 1980, and 1978) proposed a theory of vision which emphasized the importance of the representational scheme used at each stage of the processing. His proposal was based on the assumption that processing would be carried out in several steps similar to the summary description given above. The steps, and the corresponding representations are summarized as follows. 1.Gray-level image. The lowest level in processing consisis of the two-dimensional array of pixel intensity levels. These levels correspond to important physical properties of world objects, the illumination, orientation with respect to the observer. geometry, surface reflectances, and object discontinuities. Processing at this stage is , cal with structure being implicit only. The key aspect of representation at this level is that it facilitate local and first-order statistical transformations. 2. Raw primal sketch. The primal sketch is a two-dimensional representation which makes object features more iconic and explicit. It consists of patterns of edge segments, intensity changes, and local features su-h as texture. The representation at this stage should emphasize pictorial image descriptions and facilitate transformations to the next stage where surface features and volumes are described. 3. The 21'-dimensional sketch. This sketch is an explicit representation of a three-dimensional scene in which objects are given a viewer-centered coordinate system. The models here provide distance, volume, and surface structure. Threedimensional spatial reconstruction requires the use of various tools includi