nto FOPL statements. Once translated, such statements can be typed into a knowledge base and subsequently used in a program to perform inferencing. We begin the chapter with an introduction to Propositional Logic, a special case of FOPL. This will be constructive since many of the concepts which apply to this case apply equally well to FOPI. We then proceed in Section 4.3 with a more detailed study of the use of FOPL as a representation scheme. In Section 4.4 we define the syntax and semantics of FOPL and examine equivalent expressions. inference rules, and different methods for mechanized reasoning. The chapter concludes with an example of automated reasoning using a small knowledge base. SYNTAX AND SEMANTICS FOR PROPOSITIONAL LOGIC Valid statements or sentences. in PL are determined according to the rules of propositional syntax. This syntax governs the combination of basic building blocks such as propositions and logical connectives. Propositions are elementary atomic sentences. (We shall also use the term /r,n:z Ia.s or svc Ft.Jrmed J;rmu/as in place of sentences.) Propositions may be either true or false but may take on no other value. Some examples of simple propositions are It is raining. My car is painted silver. John and Sue have live children. Snow is white. People live on the moon. Compound propositions are formed from atomic formulas using the logical connectives not and or if . . . then, and if and only if. For example, the41Iowing are compound formulas. It is raining and the wind is blowing. The moon is made of green cheese or it is not. If you study hard you will be rewarded. The sum of 10 and 20 is not 50. Ne will use capital letters. sometimes followed by digits, to stand for propositions; T and F are special symbols having the values true and false, respectively. The following symbols will also be used for logical connectives - for not or negation & for and or conjunction 50 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 V for or or disjunction -+ for if ... t