Probability Notation 483
Theutility of astate isrelative toan agent. Forexample, the utility ofastate in which
Whitehascheckmated Blackinagameofchessisobviouslyhighfortheagentplaying White,
butlowfortheagentplaying Black. Butwecan tgostrictlybythescoresof1,1 2,and0that
aredictatedbytherulesoftournamentchess someplayers(includingtheauthors)mightbe
thrilledwithadrawagainsttheworldchampion,whereasotherplayers(includingtheformer
worldchampion)mightnot. Thereisnoaccounting fortasteorpreferences: youmightthink
that anagent whoprefers jalapen o bubble-gum ice cream to chocolate chocolate chip is odd
orevenmisguided,butyoucouldnotsaytheagentisirrational. Autilityfunctioncanaccount
foranysetofpreferences quirkyortypical,nobleorperverse. Notethatutilitiescanaccount
foraltruism,simplybyincluding thewelfareofothersasoneofthefactors.
Preferences, as expressed by utilities, are combined with probabilities in the general
theoryofrational decisions called decisiontheory:
DECISIONTHEORY
Decisiontheory probability theory utilitytheory.
The fundamental idea of decision theory is that an agent is rational if and only if it chooses
the action that yields the highest expected utility, averaged over all the possible outcomes
MAXIMUMEXPECTED of the action. This is called the principle of maximum expected utility (MEU). Note that
UTILITY expected might seem like avague, hypothetical term, but asitisused here ithas aprecise
meaning: it means the average, or statistical mean of the outcomes, weighted by the
probability of the outcome. We saw this principle in action in Chapter 5 when we touched
brieflyonoptimaldecisions inbackgammon;itisinfactacompletely generalprinciple.
Figure13.1sketchesthestructureofanagentthatusesdecisiontheorytoselectactions.
The agent is identical, at an abstract level, to the agents described in Chapters 4 and 7 that
maintain a belief state reflecting the history of percepts to date. The primary difference is
that the decision-theoretic agent s belief state represents