ard to modify a script. More recent work reduces scripts to individual scenes, which can be shared across multiple structures. Stereotypical sequences of scenes are strung together into memory organization packets (MOPs) [Schank, 1977]. Usually, three distinct MOPs encode knowledge about an event sequence. One MOP represents the physical sequence of events, such as entering a dentist s office, sitting in the waiting room, reading a magazine, sitting in the dentist s chair, etc. Another MOP represents the set of social events that take place. These are events that involve personal interactions. A third MOP revolves around the goals of the person in the particular episode. Any of these MOPs may be important for understanding new situations. MOPs organize scenes, and they themselves are further organized into higher-level MOPs. For example, the MOP for visiting the office of a professional may contain a sequence of abstract general scenes, such as talking to an assistant, waiting, and meeting. High-level MOPs contain no actual memories, so where do they come from? New MOPs are created upon the failure of expectations, When we use scripts for story understanding, we are able to locate interesting parts of the story by noticing places where events do not conform to the script s expectations. In a MOP-based system, if an expectation is repeatedly violated, then the MOP is generalized or Common Sense 419 split. Eventually, episodic memories can fade away, leaving only a set of generalized MOPs. These MOPs look something like scripts, except that they share scenes with one another. Let s look at an example. The first time you go to the dentist, you must determine how things work from scratch since you have no prior experience. In doing so, you store detailed accounts of each scene and string them together into a MOP. The next time you visit the dentist, that MOP provides certain expectations, which are mostly met. You are able to deal with the situation easily and make infe