re more general than some hypothesis in S, and less general that some hypothesis in G. 10. Show that the set of constraints Low, P, Yes v Medium, P, Yes High, ?, Yes as found by the ID3 algorithm is equivalent to ?, P, Yes High, ?, Yes . Use the information gain measure to build a decision tree for the following data. Show clearly the calculations that go into deciding the tree structure. The following log (base 2) data might be useful. Ig(1 8) -3, Ig(2 8) -2, Ig(3 8) -1.415, Ig(4 8) 1, Ig(5 8) -0.678, Ig(6 8) 0.415, lg(7 8) -0.193 Table 18.10 A small decision tree problem Paper reading Prog. assign Endsem Result No Yes Yes Fail Yes Yes No Pass No Yes No Fail Yes No No Fail Yes Yes Yes Pass No No No Fail No No Yes Fail Yes No Yes Fail 12. The following attributes and their corresponding values describe experiments with feeding kids. Appetizer: soup, momos, chips, salad Drink: fruit-juice, cola, jal-jeera, ice-tea Main pasta, dosa, paratha, roti, rice Sidedish1: alu-methi, broccoli, fish, bhindi, kadi tomato-sauce, sambhar, rasam, kali-dal, moong-dal fruit-salad, gaajar-halwa, gulabjamun, ice-cream Sidedish2: Dessert: The training set in Table 18.11 is indicative of the reaction elicited from the kids, in the form of either like or dislike. Use the Find-S and Candidate-Elimination algorithms to discover what the kids like. Also construct a decision tree using the D3 algorithm. Table 18.11 The data set obtained by a fictional experiment on children s food preferences momos cola paratha hindi Kali-dal fruitsalad dislike salad cola pasta broccoli tomato-sauce gaajar-halwa ilike salad cola pasta brocolli Kali-dal gaajarhalwa dislike salad ice-tea rice broccoli moong-dal gaajarhalwa dislike momos cola dosa bhindi sambhar gulab-jamun dislike soup fruit-juice pasta broccoli tomato-sauce ice-cream like chips cola dosa fish sambhar ice-cream dislike soup fiuit-juice rice brocolli moong-dal gaajar-halwa dislike momos cola rice bhindi sambhar gulab-jamun dislike chips cola tice