ult to know a priori all documents that are relevant to a given query. The application needs determine whether an R system should be tuned to maximize precision or recall. For example, precision may be more important in the context of a directory search system designed to fetch a telephone number, given a name or address. In contrast, recall is a better measure when it comes to evaluate yellow page search. An example is a system designed to retrieve all vegetarian restaurants around a specific location in a city. A typical user might be interested in going through most of the choices presented to her. Recall VZZA RET: set of NY REL: set of YY retrieved results N relevant results Ea. retneved results that are relevant Figure 16.11 Illustrating the concepts of precision and recall. It is commonplace in R to view a document as a bag of words. The words are treated as independent of each other, and the order in which the words occur is ignored completely. While this clearly falls short of capturing deep meaning and the function of texts, this shortcoming is compensated by the gains in terms of retrieval and storage, especially in face of Web scale retrieval. Various R models build on top on the bag-ofwords model. Below, we illustrate how one such formalism, viz. Vector Space Model, is used to build a toy R system. The first step is to conceptualize an n-dimensional space, where each of the dimensions corresponds to a word. Each document is represented as a vector in this a space. As an example, let us consider a document collection with just three documents D,, Dz and D3. D, has words cricket, Tendulkar, century , Dz has words cricket, Dhoni, captain and D3; has words cricket, Warne, bowler . We construct a toy vector space with the 7 distinct words cricket, Tendulkar, century, Dhoni, captain, Warne, bowler as 7 dimensions. Each document is then represented as a vector in this space, where a 1 and 0 indicates the presence and absence of a word in a document respectively