ilitate reasoning required to produce rational actions. Sophisticated agents would have a representation of themselves in the model of the world they hold. Rationality is tied up with goals of the agent, and in that sense is concerned with finding the actions or decisions that are optimal for achieving the goals. The goals are themselves described in terms of desires and intentions. An agent s desires represent the things that the agent would want to happen or be in world. The set of desires may not be consistent or even feasible. An agent may well have a desire that is not feasible. It may want to know whether White wins in the game of chess, or it may want to see a unicorn, or hop one legged up to Mount Everest if it is physically embodied. It may have a set of desires that may be individually feasible, but be inconsistent with the others. An agent may want to play a game of bridge, clean up the garage, have a long siesta, finish writing a paper, or go for a walk in the park, all on a Sunday afternoon. The intentions of an agent refer to the subset of desires that the agent decides to act upon. Thus, one aspect of rationality is in choosing the intentions. This may involve only choosing goals that are feasible. This may also involve choosing short term goals that are consistent with longterm goals. For example, one may choose the goal of finishing a paper, as opposed to playing a game of bridge, if one is studying to earn a degree. Rational behaviour may also mean optimizing the number of desires one can achieve by choosing intentions and actions (planning) appropriately. For example, one may go to the park and work on the paper writing there. Intentions of an agent can be referred to as plans as well, though not in the sense of a plan being a structured representation of actions as in Chapters 7 and 10. Rather, the notion of a plan is that of a mental state, in the sense that a plan to roast lamb is the intent to roast lamb, as opposed to a plan for roasting lamb