start off learning at a very slow pace. It takes months of patience and repetition by parents before a child starts forming concepts, naming them, refining them, and learning to express them in language. But once a core kernel of concepts is formed, learning accelerates and the learner accumulates knowledge at a rapid pace. Machine Learning (ML) is concerned with constructing computer systems that can adapt to their environment and learn from experiences. All of us come across such systems in our day-to-day life. For example, we use our favourite search engines to obtain information about a topic of interest, and find advertisements targeted at us. The systems serving context specific advertisements are also ML systems. The query recommendation systems are other ML systems that we encounter, while email or Web searches. Anyone who has visited a popular bookselling Website would remember recommendations that crop up as one searches for a book. Spam email filters are also ML systems that automatically tag spam emails. Tom Mitchell, one of the pioneers of ML, defines it as follows in his book Machine Learning (Mitchell, 1997). A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks 7 and performance measure M, if its performance at tasks in 7, as measured by M, improves with experience E. A well specified ML problem should include: 1. Aclearly defined problem solving task, 2. A performance metric, and 3. A source of training experience. A Machine Learning system learns to perform a specific task using a set of training examples. For example, let us assume that we are required to design a spam filter that automatically identifies spam emails. There are several issues that have to be addressed while building such a system. The most important issue is to define a spam email. We may not be able to define the characteristics of spam email. In other words, the concept of spam email cannot be unambiguously defined. On the other hand, however,