 that condense and become visible only when passing over the mountain range, and then evaporate again, giving us the illusion of a stationary (orographic) cloud. Karl Sims demonstrated that one could put together working designs by a genetic system that experimented by putting together parts and testing them for their functionality in a simulated, three-dimensional physical world (Sims, 1994). The physical-world simulation included articulated body dynamics, collision detection, collision response, friction, and an optional viscous fluid effect. In this simulated world, he put in creatures evolved for specific tasks or behaviour like swimming, walking, jumping and following other creatures. Different fitness functions are used for each of the above tasks. He developed a genetic representation that uses nodes and connections to describe both the morphology (the form and shape of the creature), as well as the neural circuitry used to control the system. The genotype of the system is a directed graph. The evolution of creatures begins by first creating a population of these genotypes. This could be done by creating random graphs, or by some other means like handcrafting them, or carrying some forward across different runs of the system. The phenotype of the creatures is made up of a set of three-dimensional rigid parts, connected by flexible joints, powered by muscles. Two examples of simple genotypes and the corresponding phenotypes are shown in Figure 4.22 below, taken from his paper. (Body segment) See FIGURE 4.22 Two recurrent genotypes and their corresponding phenotypes. The genotype is a directed graph, and the phenotype a hierarchy of 3-D parts. Figure from (Sims, 1994). Each graph contains the development instructions for growing the creature. Each node in the graph contains information describing a rigid part. The shape and size is described by a set of dimensions, and a joint type describes how it is connected to other parts. Each connection also contains inf