
e j j jk ejk j jk
k
To get some intuition for this formula, consider the simple case where there are only two
actions,a anda ,fromwhichtochoose. Theircurrentexpectedutilitiesare U and U . The
1 2 1 2
(cid:2) (cid:2)
information E e will yield some new expected utilities U and U for the actions, but
j jk 1 2
before weobtain E ,wewillhavesome probability distributions overthe possible values of
j
(cid:2) (cid:2)
U and U (whichweassumeareindependent).
1 2
Suppose that a and a represent two different routes through a mountain range in
1 2
winter. a is anice, straight highway through a low pass, and a is awinding dirt road over
1 2
the top. Just given this information, a is clearly preferable, because it is quite possible that
1
a is blocked by avalanches, whereas it is unlikely that anything blocks a . U is therefore
2 1 1
clearly higher than U . Itispossible toobtain satellite reports E on theactual state ofeach
2 j
(cid:2) (cid:2)
road that would give new expectations, U and U , for the two crossings. The distributions
1 2
fortheseexpectations areshownin Figure16.8(a). Obviously,inthiscase,itisnotworththe
expenseofobtainingsatellitereports,becauseitisunlikelythattheinformationderivedfrom
themwillchangetheplan. Withnochange, information hasnovalue.
Nowsuppose thatwearechoosing betweentwodifferentwindingdirtroadsofslightly
different lengths and we are carrying a seriously injured passenger. Then, even when U
1
(cid:2) (cid:2)
and U are quite close, the distributions of U and U are very broad. There is a significant
2 1 2
possibility thatthesecondroutewillturnouttobeclearwhilethefirstisblocked, andinthis
11 There isno loss of expressiveness in requiring perfect information. Suppose we wanted to model the case
inwhichwebecomesomewhat morecertainabout avariable. We candothatbyintroducing anothervariable
aboutwhichwelearnperfectinformation. Forexample, supposeweinitiallyhavebroaduncertaintyabout the
variable Temperature. Then we gain the perfect knowledge Thermometer 37; t