 makingiteasierfortheagent toachieve
itsgoals. Whentheenvironmentisnondeterministic, perceptstelltheagentwhichofthepos-
sible outcomes ofits actions hasactually occurred. In both cases, the future percepts cannot
bedeterminedinadvanceandtheagent sfutureactionswilldependonthosefuturepercepts.
Sothesolutiontoaproblemisnotasequencebutacontingencyplan(alsoknownasastrat-
CONTINGENCYPLAN
egy) that specifies what to do depending on what percepts are received. In this section, we
STRATEGY
examinethecaseofnondeterminism, deferring partialobservability to Section4.4.
4.3.1 The erraticvacuum world
As an example, we use the vacuum world, first introduced in Chapter 2 and defined as a
search problem in Section 3.2.1. Recall that the state space has eight states, as shown in
Figure 4.9. There are three actions Left, Right, and Suck and the goal is to clean up all
the dirt (states 7 and 8). If the environment is observable, deterministic, and completely
known, then the problem is trivially solvable by any of the algorithms in Chapter 3 and the
solution isanaction sequence. Forexample, iftheinitial state is1, then theaction sequence Suck,Right,Suck willreachagoalstate, 8.
8 Asetofpoints Sisconvexifthelinejoininganytwopointsin Sisalsocontainedin S.Aconvexfunctionis
oneforwhichthespace above itformsaconvexset;bydefinition,convexfunctionshavenolocal(asopposed
toglobal)minima.
134 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
1 2
3 4
5 6
7 8
Figure4.9 Theeightpossiblestatesofthevacuumworld;states7and8aregoalstates.
Now suppose that we introduce nondeterminism in the form of a powerful but erratic
ERRATICVACUUM vacuumcleaner. Intheerraticvacuumworld,the Suckactionworksasfollows:
WORLD When applied to a dirty square the action cleans the square and sometimes cleans up
dirtinanadjacentsquare, too. Whenapplied toacleansquaretheactionsometimesdeposits dirtonthecarpet.9
Toprovideapreciseformulation ofthisproblem,weneedtogeneralize thenotionofatran-
sitionmodelfrom Chapter3. Insteadofdefiningthetransiti