ly easy. The earliest work in statistical machine translation did apply
Bayes rule in part because the researchers had agood language model, P(f), andwanted
to make use of it, and in part because they came from a background in speech recognition,
which is a diagnostic problem. We follow their lead in this chapter, but we note that re-
cent work in statistical machine translation often optimizes P(f e) directly, using a more
sophisticated modelthattakesintoaccount manyofthefeatures fromthelanguage model.
910 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
The language model, P(f), could address any level(s) on the right-hand side of Fig-
ure 23.12, but the easiest and most common approach is to build an n-gram model from a
French corpus, as we have seen before. This captures only a partial, local idea of French
sentences; however,thatisoftensufficientforroughtranslation.8
Thetranslationmodelislearnedfromabilingualcorpus acollectionofparalleltexts,
BILINGUALCORPUS
each an English French pair. Now, if we had an infinitely large corpus, then translating a
sentence wouldjustbealookuptask: wewouldhaveseenthe Englishsentence beforeinthe
corpus, so we could just return the paired French sentence. But of course our resources are
finite, and most of the sentences we will be asked to translate will be novel. However, they
will be composed of phrases that we have seen before (even if some phrases are as short as
one word). For example, in this book, common phrases include in this exercise we will, sizeofthestatespace, asafunction ofthe and notesattheendofthechapter. Ifasked
totranslatethenovelsentence Inthisexercisewewillcomputethesizeofthestatespaceasa
function ofthenumberofactions. into French,weshouldbeabletobreakthesentenceinto
phrases, find the phrases in the English corpus (this book), find the corresponding French
phrases (from the French translation of the book), and then reassemble the French phrases
intoanorderthatmakessensein French. Inotherwords,givenasource Englishse