nce rules are combined with the formation rules, a complete inference system is obtained. This system is truth preserving. The inference rules needed which are the equivalent of those in a PL system are defined as follows. Erasure. Any conceptual graph enclosed by an even number of negations may be erased. Insertion. Any conceptual graph may be inserted into another graph Context which is enclosed by an odd number of negations. Iteration. A copy of any conceptual graph C may be inserted into a graph context in which C occurs or in which C is dominated by another concept. Deiteration. Any conceptual graph which could be the result of iteration may be erased from a onnceptual graph context. Double Negation. A double negation may be erased or drawn before any conceptual graph or set of graphs. As an example of some of the above rules, any graph w may be inserted in the implication [u lull to derive iu w [vil. Any graph w may be erased from the consequent of an implication - Iu - (r wil to derive - u - I t' J. Any graph w may be erased from the antecedent of an implication only if it has been independently asserted. Thus if u and (u v(w]] then derive (vw II. Note that deiteration and double negation are equivalent to modus ponens. that is, given p and p'1q11. deiteration permits erasure of p inside the first bracket to get -[-1q11. Double negation then permits erasure of - ( to obtain the final result q. 136 Structured Knowledge: Graphs. Frames, and Related Structures Chap. 7 Other inference methods including inheritance (if all A have property P and all B are A, all B have property P) and default reasoning are also possible with conceptual graphs. The implementation of modal logic formalisms with these graphs is possible by using concepts such as possible and necessary. Heuristic reasoning can be accomplished within the theory of conceptual graphs. In summary, conceptual graphs offer the means to represent natural language statements accurately and to perform many form