ays that the
state variables contain all the information needed tocharacterize the probability distribution
forthenext time slice. Sometimes the assumption is exactly true forexample, ifaparticle
is executing a random walk along the x-axis, changing its position by 1 at each time step,
then using the x-coordinate as the state gives a first-order Markov process. Sometimes the
assumptionisonlyapproximate, asinthecaseofpredicting rainonlyonthebasisofwhether
itrainedthepreviousday. Therearetwowaystoimprovetheaccuracyoftheapproximation:
1. Increasing the order of the Markov process model. For example, we could make a
second-ordermodelbyadding Rain t 2 asaparentof Rain t ,whichmightgiveslightly
more accurate predictions. For example, in Palo Alto, California, it very rarely rains
morethantwodaysinarow.
2. Increasing the set of state variables. For example, we could add Season to allow
t
570 Chapter 15. Probabilistic Reasoning over Time
us to incorporate historical records of rainy seasons, or we could add Temperature ,
t
Humidity and Pressure (perhapsatarangeoflocations)toallowustouseaphysical
t t
modelofrainyconditions.
Exercise 15.1 asks you to show that the first solution increasing the order can always be
reformulated as an increase in the set of state variables, keeping the order fixed. Notice that
adding state variables might improve the system s predictive power but also increases the
prediction requirements: we now have to predict the new variables as well. Thus, we are
lookingfora self-sufficient setofvariables,whichreallymeansthatwehavetounderstand
the physics of the process being modeled. The requirement for accurate modeling of the
process isobviously lessened ifwecan add newsensors (e.g., measurements oftemperature
andpressure) thatprovideinformation directly aboutthenewstatevariables.
Consider,forexample,theproblemoftrackingarobotwanderingrandomlyonthe X Y
plane. Onemightpropose thattheposition andvelocityarea sufficientsetofstatevariables:
onecansimplyuse N