l be true as well? This is the well known Frame Problem introduced by John McCarthy (McCarthy, 1969) . This problem can be solved by adding the so called frame axioms , which explicitly specify that all conditions not affected by actions are not changed while executing that action. Thus, the frame axioms need to be applied at each stage to keep track of what is true as time marches on. We will look at frame axioms in Chapter 10. The ingenious solution introduced in STRIPS was to make all change explicit. Thus, one was saved the bother of asserting facts all over again, each time an action was added to the plan. This is the approach a cartoon animator would take making cartoon films. She would take (copy) the previous frame, delete a few strokes, and add a few others to create the next frame. Whatever was not changed remained the same. STRIPS operators follow this strategy, and are made up of the following three components: P: Precondition List The assertions needed to be true for the operator to be applicable. A: Add List The assertions that became true as a consequence of the operator being applied. D: Delete List The assertions that are no longer true as a consequence of the operator being applied. The set of assertions in the database at any time describe the world as it is. When an instance of an operator is applied to a database of assertions, some assertions may be deleted, while others may be added. Fikes introduced the following operators for the blocks world domain. PICKUP (X) P: ontable (X) A clear (X) A armempty A: holding (X) D: ontable (X) A armempty PUTDOWN (xX) P: holding (X) A: ontable (X) A armempty D: holding (X) UNSTACK (x, Y) P: on (X, Y) A clear (X) A armempty A: holding (X) A clear (Y) D: on (X, Y) A armempty STACK (X, Y) P: holding (X) A clear (Y) A: on (X, Y) A clear (X) A armempty D: holding (X) A clear (Y) Notice that when one picks up a block X, either with STACK or PICKUP, the operators do not delete the assertion clear(X). When we put it