ingroom) made-of (Tablet, Wood) on Vase, Tablet) made-of (Vase1, Glass) on( Vase2, Table2) on Lamp1, Table?) {b) Fig. 11.1 Capturing Structure in Models 11.3.3. Subsymbolic Systems So far, all of the representations that we have discussed are symbolic, in the sense we defined in Section 1.2. There are alternative representations, many of them based on a neural model patterned after the human brain. These systems are often called neural nets or connectionist systems. We discuss such systems in Chapter 18. Knowledge Representation Summary 227 11.4 SUMMARY OF THE ROLE OF KNOWLEDGE In the last several chapters we have focused on the kinds of knowledge that may be useful to programs and on ways of representing and using that knowledge within programs. To sum up, for now, our treatment of knowledge within AI programs, let us return to a brief discussion of the two roles that knowledge can play in those programs. e It may define the search space and the criteria for determining a solution to a problem.. We cali this knowledge essential knowledge. e It may improve the efficiency of a reasoning procedure by informing that procedure of the best places to look for a solution. We call that knowledge heuristic knowledge. in formal tasks, such as theorem proving and game playing, there is only a small amount of essential knowledge and the need for a large amount of heuristic knowledge may be challenged by several brute force programs that perform quite successfully (e.g., the chess programs HITECH [Berliner and Ebeling, 1989] and DEEP THOUGHT [Anantharaman et al., 1990]). The real knowledge challenge arises when we tackle naturally occurring problems, such as medical diagnosis, natural language processing, or engineering design. In those domains, substantial bodies of both essential and heuristic knowledge are absolutely necessary. EXERCISES gemeeeggnenrageg ye t Ona ERC OR e SRE TENCTOTERE STODRFN IEZIS 0 SRECI MERTON CREEL 5 ROHR COS es MARTON TARAS BORE TION ESATA? MOI ORESRT 