l metric representation. When such a representation is necessary,
techniques developedinrobotics(Chapter25)canbeused.
PSYCHOLOGICAL Psychological reasoning: Psychological reasoning involves the development of a working
REASONING
psychology for artificial agents to use in reasoning about themselves and other agents. This
is often based on so-called folk psychology, the theory that humans in general are believed
to use in reasoning about themselves and other humans. When AI researchers provide their
artificialagentswithpsychological theoriesforreasoning aboutotheragents,thetheoriesare
frequentlybasedontheresearchers descriptionofthelogicalagents owndesign. Psycholog-
icalreasoning iscurrently mostuseful within thecontext ofnatural language understanding,
wherediviningthespeaker s intentions isofparamount importance.
Minker(2001)collectspapersbyleadingresearchersinknowledgerepresentation,sum-
marizing 40 years of work in the field. The proceedings of the international conferences on
Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoningprovide themostup-to-date sources
for work in this area. Readings in Knowledge Representation (Brachman and Levesque,
1985) and Formal Theories of the Commonsense World (Hobbs and Moore, 1985) are ex-
cellent anthologies on knowledge representation; the former focuses more on historically
important papers in representation languages and formalisms, the latter onthe accumulation
of the knowledge itself. Davis (1990), Stefik (1995), and Sowa (1999) provide textbook in-
troductions toknowledgerepresentation, van Harmelen etal.(2007)contributes ahandbook,
andaspecialissueof AI Journal coversrecentprogress(Davisand Morgenstern, 2004). The
biennial conference on Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning About Knowledge (TARK) covers
applications ofthetheoryofknowledgein AI,economics, anddistributed systems.
EXERCISES
12.1 Define an ontology in first-order logic for tic-tac-toe. The ontology should contain
situations,actions,squares,players,marks(X,O,orbl