lective search as follows (Berliner, 1979), 1. It must be able to stop when a clearly best alternative exists at the root. This is done by comparison and is independent of the ultimate value of the best move. 2. It must be able to focus the search on the place where the greatest information can be gained toward terminating the search. The first criterion is similar to the one in the AO algorithm (see Chapter 6). The second pertains to the heuristic aspect of search. Berliner provides an interesting perspective to the game tree search problem. He views the search space as a surface with geological features defined by an evaluation function in the (third) Z dimension. Only the game tree search space has layers and layers of ridges, as one looks farther ahead in the X and Y dimensions. Heuristic search is concerned with optimizing the value in the Z dimension (see Chapter 3). A strategic outlook, on the other hand, is concerned with reasoning about choices in the X and Y dimensions. The algorithms discussed above determine the strategic outlook based on a predefined ply look-ahead search. In that sense, they are not selective, though the algorithm SSS does refine partial solutions selectively. B search carries this idea one step forward, searching selectively from the very beginning. Further, it does not search a predetermined ply depth, but continues searching until the best option is distinctly better than the others. To do this, it must have an idea of the goodness of a node. Remember that the algorithms described above apply the evaluation only at the leaf node on the search frontier. The values of the internal nodes are the backed-up minimax values of these leaves. The final decision is based on a subset of the nodes evaluated at the search horizon. Algorithm B also evaluates nodes using a small fixed ply look-ahead search, called a probe search. It uses the results of these evaluations to selectively explore certain move combinations, before deciding on the move 