l nodes and l2 mutex links,
i
and each A has nomore than a l nodes (including theno-ops), (a l)2 mutex links, and
i
2(al l) precondition and effect links. Thus, an entire graph with n levels has a size of
O(n(a l)2). Thetimetobuildthegraphhasthesamecomplexity.
10.3.1 Planning graphs forheuristicestimation
Aplanning graph,onceconstructed, isarichsource ofinformation abouttheproblem. First,
ifanygoalliteralfailstoappearinthefinallevelofthegraph,thentheproblemisunsolvable.
Second, we can estimate the cost of achieving any goal literal g from state s as the level at
i
which g first appears in the planning graph constructed from initial state s. Wecall this the
i
382 Chapter 10. Classical Planning
levelcostofg . In Figure10.8,Have(Cake)haslevelcost0and Eaten(Cake)haslevelcost
LEVELCOST i
1. It is easy to show (Exercise 10.10) that these estimates are admissible for the individual
goals. The estimate might not always be accurate, however, because planning graphs allow
several actions at each level, whereas the heuristic counts just the level and not the number
SERIALPLANNING of actions. For this reason, it is common to use a serial planning graph for computing
GRAPH
heuristics. A serial graph insists that only one action can actually occur at any given time
step; thisisdonebyadding mutexlinks between everypairof nonpersistence actions. Level
costsextractedfromserialgraphsareoftenquitereasonable estimatesofactualcosts.
Toestimate the cost of a conjunction of goals, there are three simple approaches. The
max-levelheuristic simplytakesthemaximumlevelcostofanyofthegoals;thisisadmissi-
MAX-LEVEL
ble,butnotnecessarily accurate.
The level sum heuristic, following the subgoal independence assumption, returns the
LEVELSUM
sum of the level costs of the goals; this can be inadmissible but works well in practice
for problems that are largely decomposable. It is much more accurate than the number-
of-unsatisfied-goals heuristic from Section 10.2. For our problem, the level-sum heurist