et concept. Obviously, this would produce an awkward description if there were many positive instances. There are many concepts which simply cannot be described well in conjunctive terms only. One of the best examples is the concept of uncle since an uncle can be either the brother of the father or the brother of the mother of a child. To state it any other way is cumbersome. The system we describe below was first implemented at M.I.T (Iba. 1979). It is a more traditional Al type of learner than the systems of the previous chapter in that it builds symbolic English-like descriptions and the learning process is more algorithmic in form. This system learns descriptions which are essentially in disjunc. tive normal form. Consequently, a broad range of descriptions is possible. Furthermore, the system can learn either concept descriptions from attribute values or structural descriptions of objects. The training set we use here consists of a sequence of labeled positive and negative instances of the target concept. Each instance is presented to the learner as an unordered list of attributes together with a label which specifies whether or not the instance is positive or negative. For this first example, we require our learner to learn the disjunctive concept "something that is either a tall flower or a yellow object." One such instance of Sic. 1U Example of an Inductive Learn., 351 conc.Ln.m.:(til I flows, or yellow oblsct) pouldvspalt: clu.tsr:descrpti Ofl examples: cluster:de.cnption: examples: negative par: examples: Figure 18.5 Frame-like knowledge structure. this concept is represented as (short skinny yellow flower +); whereas a negative instance is (brown fat tall weed ). Given a number of positive and negative training instances such as these, the learner builds frame-like structures with groups of slots we will call clusters as depicted in Figure 18.5. The target concept is given in the concept name. The actual description is then built up as a group of slots la