to a point of satiation. When we pump air into our bicycles, we do not reason with numbers or formulas. We pump till we fee that the pressure is enough. We do not monitor the temperature of water in a pot of tea we are making. We predict (know) that on the stove, the water temperature will rise till it comes to a boil. We know that if we are pouring tea into a cup, the quantity in the cup will increase and eventually it could overflow. We do not compute the rate of fluid flow or the volume capacity of the cup. Human beings do a fair amount of qualitative reasoning. We also build qualitative models of the world around us, and our interaction with other people. A significant amount of our reasoning combines factual knowledge combined with qualitative reasoning. We know that as winter approaches, it will get colder S. We know that watermelons are available in the summer. We know that people get hungry often in a day, though we do not compute times. We reason about emotions at a qualitative level. We know that children are happier when they get to play. We can predict that if you help someone, they will be happier. We feel better when others smile at us, and most of us generalize from this experience and smile at others. We also have specific knowledge about people, places and things. We know that the beach is crowded on weekends. We know the likes of people close to us. know my daughter is a Djokovic fan. know that she and her friend love pasta. know her friend s dad is a movie buff. Qualitative reasoning is but one of the approaches we employ to reason in a world with incomplete and uncertain knowledge. The other techniques are default reasoning and probabilistic reasoning. We look at some of these techniques in Chapter 17. The point is that when we exist in our world and act intelligently, interacting with others and the surroundings, we do so with the aid of lots of knowledge of different kinds. We have factual knowledge (so popular amongst quiz masters); we make in