onclusion. People may stagger when they walk for other reasons, including dizziness from twirling in circles or from some physical problem. We may represent abductive inference with the following, where the c over the implication arrow is meant to imply a possible causal relationship. assertion Q implication P -. Q conclusion P .Abductive inference is useful when known causal relations are likely and deductive inferencing is not possible for lack of facts. Inductive Inference Inductive inferencing is based on the assumption that a recurring pattern, observed for some event or entity, implies that the pattern is true for all entities in the class. Given instances P(al). P(a).....P(a). conclude that Vv PC). More generally. given P(a1) Q(b1). P(a) Qb,).... . P(a) Q (b5). conclude Vx.y P(x) - We often make this form of generalization after observing only a few instances of a situation. It is known as the inductive leap. For example, after seeing a few white swans, we incorrectly infer that all swans are white (a type of Australian swan is black), or we conclude that all Irishmen are stubborn after discussions with only a few. We can represent inductive inference using the following description: P(a,),... . P(a,<) Vx P(x) Inductive inference, of course, is not a valid form of inference, since it is not usually the case that all objects of a class can be verified as having a particular property. Even so, this is an important and commonly used form of inference. Analogical Inference Analogical inference is a form of experiential inference. Situations or entities which are alike in some respects tend to be similar in other respects. Thus, when we find that Situation (object) A is related in certain ways to B. and A' is similar in some context to A, we conclude that B' has a similar relation to A' in this context. For example, to solve a problem with three equations in three unknowns, we try to extend the methods. we know in solving two equations in two unknowns. Analogical 