ar situations. T he old experiences provide scenarios or explanations which tend to match the new Situation in some aspects and, therefore, offer the promise of suggesting a solution to the new situation The old and new situations need not be in the same domain. Frequently, the two domains, the base and target domains, will he entirely different, but similarities between the relationships of objects remain strong, a likely consequence of the regularity of nature. For example, consider the solar planetary system and the Rutherford model of an atom or the flow of liquids in pipes and the flow of electricity in conducting wires. In the first case, both consist of a system of smaller bodies being attracted to and revolving around a more massive nucleus, In the second case, the flow behaviors are governed by the force of thc sources, the resistance of the medium, and other properties of the respectivt' flos in networks. Analogical reasoning is probably the form of reasoning we are most dependeoi upon for all of our decisions and actions. Its use spans such mundane taska' finding one's way home from work, to more complex tasks such as pla ying ches or writing a technical paper. As suggested by Carbonell and Minton (1993). th' form of reasoning requires less cognitive effort than more formal types of reasoning. which could explain why analogical reasoning is so prevelant in human thought processes. Analogies appear in different guises and at varied levels of abstraction. Simpler analogies are the word-object or geometric ones often found in SAT or GRE tests They take the form A - B (A is like B) or more generally A:B C:D (A is to B as C is to D) 28Analogical and Explanation-Based Learning Chap. 20 418 example, the type of word-object where one of the components is missing. For and geometrical analogies typically found in aptitude or GRE tests are given by (a) (b) house: hut (b) water : dam tree : : battery (d) (c) green go #0 red :_ 0 Examples of more abstract analogies ar