ionspacecontainsallhypothesesconsistentwiththeexamples.
hypothesisspaceisenormous,sohowcanwepossiblywritedownthisenormousdisjunction?
The following simple analogy is very helpful. How do you represent all the real num-
bers between 1 and 2? After all, there are an infinite number of them! The answer is to use
anintervalrepresentation thatjustspecifiestheboundaries oftheset: 1,2 . Itworksbecause
wehaveanordering ontherealnumbers.
Wealsohaveanorderingonthehypothesisspace,namely,generalization specialization.
This is a partial ordering, which means that each boundary will not be a point but rather a
set of hypotheses called a boundary set. The great thing is that we can represent the entire
BOUNDARYSET
version space using just twoboundary sets: amostgeneral boundary (the G-set) andamost
G-SET
specific boundary (the S-set). Everything in between isguaranteed to be consistent with the
S-SET
examples. Beforeweprovethis,letusrecap: The current version space is the set of hypotheses consistent with all the examples so
far. Itisrepresented bythe S-setand G-set,eachofwhichis asetofhypotheses. Every member of the S-set is consistent with all observations so far, and there are no
consistent hypotheses thataremorespecific. Every member of the G-set is consistent with all observations so far, and there are no
consistent hypotheses thataremoregeneral.
Wewanttheinitialversionspace(beforeanyexampleshavebeenseen)torepresentallpossi-
blehypotheses. Wedothisbysettingthe G-settocontain True (thehypothesis thatcontains
everything), andthe S-settocontain False (thehypothesis whoseextension isempty).
Figure19.4showsthegeneralstructureoftheboundary-set representationoftheversion
space. Toshowthattherepresentation issufficient,weneed thefollowingtwoproperties:
Section19.1. ALogical Formulationof Learning 775
1. Everyconsistenthypothesis(otherthanthoseintheboundarysets)ismorespecificthan
somememberofthe G-set,andmoregeneral thansomememberof the S-set. (Thatis,
there are no stragglers left out