 concepts like triangle and polygon termino-logically, in the TBox, rather than assertionally. Thus we can do efficient terminological reasoning in the TBox and more general reasoning in the ABox. Terminological reasoning involves answering questions about subsumption and inheritance, such as Can something be both a triangle and a rectangle? Knowledge Representation Summary 225 Consider a resolution theorem prover running with assertions in the ABox. A standard operation in resolution is determining when pairs of literals such as f(x) and ~f(x) are inconsistent. Standard resolution requires that the literals be textually unifiable (except for the negation sign). KRYPTON extends the idea of textual inconsistency to terminological inconsistency in order to make the theorem prover more efficient. The TBox can tell that the two assertions friangle(x) and rectangle(x) are inconsistent and can thus be resolved against each other. The TBox can also determine the inconsistency of triangle(x) and ~polygen(x); moreover, the two assertions srectangle(x) and polygon(x) can be resolved against each other as long as we add to the resolvent the fact that x must have an angle which is not 90 degrees. If TBox computations are very efficient, then ABox proofs will be generated much faster than they would be in a pure logic framework. 11.3. OTHER REPRESENTATIONAL TECHNIQUES In the last several chapters, we have described various techniques that can be used to represent knowledge. But our survey is by no means complete. There are other ways of representing knowledge; some of them are quite similar to the ones we have discussed and some are quite different. In this section we briefly discuss three additional methods: constraints, simulation models, and subsymbolic systems. Keep in mind throughout this discussion that it is not always the case that these various representational systems are mutually inconsistent. They often overlap, either in the way they use component representational m