hogens. Strangely, the body has been known to react toa variety of harmless agents too. Foreign implants, blood transfusion, pollen and drugs can trigger reactions that are similar to those when invaded by pathogens. There are yet other weird times when the body reacts to its own cells too! 24.3 IMMUNITY AND INFECTION The human immune system is an efficient defence mechanism that caters to a variety of infections. It constitutes two layers or tiers of defence viz. The Innate Immune System and e The Adaptive Immune System The activity of White Blood Corpuscles (WBC) or the leucocytes!' governs the nature of the immune system. While the Innate immune system is regulated mainly by the granulocytes' and macrophages", the latter is arbitrated by lymphocytes that comprise primarily of Band T-type cells. The two lines of defence together avoid infection the former preventing a broad range of infections and the latter tackling specific antigens to which it has already been exposed. The body thus survives even though it is constantly surrounded by a variety of pathogens. 24.4. THE INNATE IMMUNE SYSTEM THE FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE Encounters with most external microorganisms such as bacteria do not essentially result in disease. Apart from cases where there is a wound, the skin and the internal mucosal surfaces form an initial barrier to all infections. Microbes that manage to cross the body s initial barriers viz. the skin, mucus, p H, cilia , etc. are generally eliminated by the innate immune system. The beating of cilia, air movement, mucus and peristalsis' do their best to remove an externa! pathogen. If the pathogen still persists to adhere to the skin (epithelium ), chemical barriers like low p H, hydrolytic enzymes and antibacterial defence mechanisms are activated. In addition nature also provides its own defence mechanism. The body is covered with micro flora that also compete with the pathogens for space and nutrients forming another external line of defence. These mec