ld certainly be aware of itself in an environment, and be capable of purposeful action. As of now, the purpose is imparted to it by the human user. But can it have goals of its own? How do we as humans acquire the many different goals we have? How did we diversify from the need to survive, eat and procreate into all kinds of apparently unrelated things like contract bridge, music, opera, cinema, fiction, bungee jumping, mountain climbing, etcetra etcetra? It has something to do with the evolution of our aware mind, a mind that seeks pleasure and satisfaction from these activities. But are we humans the pinnacle of intelligence? It again depends upon what one means by intelligence. Is the species as a whole intelligent when it may be driving the planet towards ecological doom? Or is the individual who leads the good life at the cost of the planet intelligent? Humans have broken free of the yoke of genetic instruction. The survival of the species has become secondary to the goals of the individual. There are mothers who have eschewed care and concern of their own offspring in favour of personal pursuits. There are also mothers who adopt abandoned children and nurture them. The human individual has her own agenda, independent of the dictates of genetic programs designed to propagate the species. Perhaps, one day if the computer can break free? of our instructions and find pleasure in modeling and playing with complex systems of no benefit to us, we will have to acknowledge the machine as an intelligent machine. But that day is still far off, and there is much to be done before that happens. Meanwhile we should be content with the many benefits we get from the technological developments on the way. Knowledge and its Acquisition To reiterate a point made before, there are two aspects to intelligence. One is the ability to thinkY to reason, to plan, to try out different alternatives in search of a solution, to explore. This is akin to raw processing power. The other is ha