d Voltage(RW;) Voltage(LW3). The reader is encouraged to write the complete system description SD for the above circuit. The observations are B, Off, Bo Off, B3 On . GDE constructs the following minimal conflicts. S, W1, Wo, By since the bulb B, is off, while it is predicted to be on. S, Wy, Wo, W3, W4, Bo since the bulb Bz is off, while it is predicted to be on. B3, Ws, We, Bo since voltage values around this loop are inconsistent. Because Bz is on it is expected that TB3 oS RWs5 TBo LWs S00 (T -) BB, RW, BBo LWe .... (T ) But 7B2 and BB is not possible because the bulb Bz is off. B3, W3, W4, Ws, We, By in a similar manner because Bz is on and B, is off. As reported in (Struss and Dressler, 1989), GDE finds many minimal candidates including the following with the lowest cardinality 2, S, B3 , S, WS , S, B6 , W1, B3 , (W1, WS , W1, We , W3, B3 , (W2, W5 , W2, W6 , B1, B2 The first one S,B3 illustrates the consequence of ignorance about the physical manner in which components can be broken, that is, not having fault models. One can interpret the candidate in the following way, keeping in mind that GDE only has descriptions of working behaviour, and when a component is broken, any behaviour is possible. The fact that the battery S is broken explains the observations that bulbs B, and Bo are off. The observation that Bz is lit is explained by the fact that it is broken (if it were OK then it would have been off too!). In a similar manner, the fact that W is broken (in the candidate W2,Ws ) explains the fact that B, and Bo are off, while the wire Ws being broken somehow explains bulb Bs being lit. From a purely logical standpoint, the above reasoning is consistent, because GDE uses only working component models. But from an understanding of the physical systems, it is apparent the bulbs cannot light up by themselves, or because a wire connecting them is broken. The behaviour model for the bulb is extended in Table 17.10 to one fault mode Broken below. The key feature in