 game is played on a 5 by 5 board. Each square can be in two positions, ON or OFF. The initial state is some state, where at least one square is ON. The moves constitute of clicking on a particular square. The effect of the click is to toggle the positions of its four neighbouring squares. The task is to bring all squares to OFF position. Pose the above problem as a state space search problem. . Ramesh claims that a given map can be coloured with three colours, such that no adjacent countries have the same colour. The map is represented as a planar graph with nodes as countries and arcs between countries that are adjacent to each other. Design a search program to test his claim for any given problem. . In the algorithms given in this chapter, the list CLOSED is searched in a linear fashion to find out whether a node has been visited earlier or not. Devise a faster approach to accomplish this task. . In the following graph, the node A is the start node and nodes J, G and R are goal nodes. The tree is being searched by the DFID algorithm, searching left to right. Write the sequence of nodes inspected by DFID till termination. a fo N foe Oo FIGURE 2.33 A small search tree. Assume that the algorithm searches it from left to right. 10. Given the moveGen function in the table below, and the ROA GHP ANMUOWPH bhbubedQ eeu bu yu ge corresponding state space graph, the task is to find a path from the start node S to the goal node J. moveGen (Dc BA) (S B JE) (3 FA) (3 D HG) (3 Ic) (A sR) (BK 3) (c (c (D (A (E (G (i M L) YRHeHAGHoOM DO mi hy nm K FIGURE 2.34 A small search problem. The task is to find a path from the start node S to the goal node J. Show the OPEN and CLOSED lists for the DFS and the BFS algorithms. What is the path found by each of them? . The search algorithms depicted in this chapter maintain an OPEN list of candidate states. In some domains, the description of a move may need much less space than the description of a state. Show how the DFS algorithm can be 