equiredinthefulljointdistribution. (Efficient Bayesian
network algorithms were unknown then.) As a result, probabilistic approaches fell out of
favor from roughly 1975 to1988, and avariety ofalternatives toprobability weretried fora
varietyofreasons: One common view is that probability theory is essentially numerical, whereas human
judgmental reasoning is more qualitative. Certainly, we are not consciously aware
of doing numerical calculations of degrees of belief. (Neither are we aware of doing
unification, yet we seem to be capable of some kind of logical reasoning.) It might be
that we have some kind of numerical degrees of belief encoded directly in strengths
of connections and activations in our neurons. In that case, the difficulty of conscious
accesstothosestrengthsisnotsurprising. Oneshouldalso notethatqualitativereason-
Section14.7. Other Approaches to Uncertain Reasoning 547
ingmechanisms canbebuiltdirectly ontopofprobability theory, sothe nonumbers argument against probability has little force. Nonetheless, some qualitative schemes
have a good deal of appeal in their own right. One of the best studied is default rea-
soning,whichtreats conclusions notas believed toacertaindegree, butas believed
until a better reason is found to believe something else. Default reasoning is covered
in Chapter12. Rule-based approaches to uncertainty have also been tried. Such approaches hope to
build on the success of logical rule-based systems, but add a sort of fudge factor to
eachruletoaccommodateuncertainty. Thesemethodsweredevelopedinthemid-1970s
andformedthebasisforalargenumberofexpertsystemsinmedicineandotherareas. One area that we have not addressed so far is the question of ignorance, as opposed
to uncertainty. Consider the flipping of a coin. If we know that the coin is fair, then
a probability of 0.5 for heads is reasonable. If we know that the coin is biased, but
we do not know which way, then 0.5 for heads is again reasonable. Obviously, the
twocasesaredifferent