linaserialgraphisnogreaterthantheactualcostofanoptimal
planforachievingit.
10.11 The set-level heuristic (see page 382) uses a planning graph to estimate the cost of
achieving a conjunctive goal from the current state. What relaxed problem is the set-level
heuristic thesolutionto?
10.12 Examinethedefinitionofbidirectionalsearch in Chapter3.
a. Wouldbidirectional state-space searchbeagoodideaforplanning?
b. Whataboutbidirectional searchinthespaceofpartial-order plans?
c. Deviseaversionofpartial-orderplanninginwhichanactioncanbeaddedtoaplanifits
preconditionscanbeachievedbytheeffectsofactionsalreadyintheplan. Explainhow
todeal with conflicts and ordering constraints. Is the algorithm essentially identical to
forwardstate-space search?
10.13 We contrasted forward and backward state-space searchers with partial-order plan-
ners,sayingthatthelatterisaplan-spacesearcher. Explainhowforwardandbackwardstate-
space search can also be considered plan-space searchers, and say what the plan refinement
operators are.
10.14 Uptonowwehaveassumedthattheplanswecreatealwaysmakesurethatanaction s
preconditions aresatisfied. Letusnowinvestigate whatpropositional successor-state axioms
such as Have Arrowt 1 (Have Arrowt Shoott) have to say about actions whose
preconditions arenotsatisfied.
a. Showthat the axioms predict that nothing will happen when anaction isexecuted in a
statewhereitspreconditions arenotsatisfied.
b. Consider aplan pthat contains the actions required toachieve agoal but also includes
illegalactions. Isitthecasethat
initialstate successor-state axioms p goal?
c. Withfirst-ordersuccessor-state axiomsinsituation calculus, isitpossible toprovethat
aplancontaining illegalactionswillachievethegoal?
10.15 Consider how to translate aset of action schemas into the successor-state axioms of
situation calculus.
a. Consider the schema for Fly(p,from,to). Write a logical definition for the predicate
Poss(Fly(p,from,to),s), which is true if the preconditions for Fly(p,from,to) are
