ACON comes up with the ideal gas law using a minimal number of experiments. A better understanding of the science of scientific discovery may lead one day to programs that display true creativity. Much more work must be done in areas of science that BACON does not model, such as determining what data to gather, choosing (or creating) instruments to measure the data, and using analogies to previously understood phenomena. For a thorough discussion of scientific discovery programs, see Langley et al. [1987]. 17.7.3 Clustering A third type of discovery, called clustering, is very similar to induction, as we described it in Section 17.5. In inductive leaming, a program learns to classify objects based on the labelings provided by a teacher. In clustering, no class labelings are provided. The program must discover for itself the natural classes that exist for the objects, in addition to a method for classifying instances. Learning 371 o C ERENT RCO AO a AEST AUTOCLASS [Cheeseman et al., 1988] is one program that accepts a number of training casesiand hypothesizes a set of classes. For any given case, the program provides a set of probabilities that predict into which class(es) the case is likely to fall. In one application, AUTOCLASS found meaningful new classes of stars from their infrared spectral data. This was an instance of true discovery by computer, since the facts it discovered were previously unknown to astronomy. AUTOCLASS uses statistical Bayesian reasoning of the type discussed in Chapter 8. 17.8 ANALOGY Analogy is a powerful inference tool. Our language and reasoning are laden with analogies. Consider the following sentences: Last month, the stock market was a roller coaster. Bill is like a fire engine. Problems in electromagnetism are just like problems in fluid flow. Underlying cach of these examples is a complicated mapping between what appear to be dissimilar concepts. For example, to understand the first sentence above, it is necessary to do two things: