canberepresented formally.
12.18 (Adapted from Fagin et al. (1995).) Consider a game played with a deck of just 8
cards,4acesand4kings. Thethreeplayers,Alice,Bob,and Carlos,aredealttwocardseach.
Withoutlookingatthem,theyplacethecardsontheirforeheads sothattheotherplayerscan
see them. Then the players take turns either announcing that they know what cards are on
their own forehead, thereby winning the game, or saying I don t know. Everyone knows
theplayersaretruthfulandareperfectatreasoning aboutbeliefs.
a. Game1. Alice and Bob have both said I don t know. Carlos sees that Alice has two
aces(A-A)and Bobhastwokings (K-K).Whatshould Carlossay? (Hint: consider all
threepossible casesfor Carlos: A-A,K-K,A-K.)
b. Describeeachstepof Game1usingthenotation ofmodallogic.
c. Game2. Carlos, Alice, and Boballsaid I don t know ontheirfirstturn. Aliceholds
K-Kand Bobholds A-K.Whatshould Carlossayonhissecondturn?
d. Game3. Alice,Carlos,and Boballsay Idon tknow ontheirfirstturn,asdoes Alice
onhersecondturn. Aliceand Bobbothhold A-K.Whatshould Carlossay?
e. Provethattherewillalwaysbeawinnertothisgame.
12.19 Theassumption oflogical omniscience, discussed on page453, isofcourse not true
of any actual reasoners. Rather, it is an idealization of the reasoning process that may be
more or less acceptable depending on the applications. Discuss the reasonableness of the
assumption foreachofthefollowingapplications ofreasoning aboutknowledge:
a. Partial knowledge adversary games, such as card games. Here one player wants to
reasonaboutwhathisopponent knowsaboutthestateofthegame.
b. Chess with a clock. Here the player may wish to reason about the limits of his oppo-
nent s or his own ability to find the best move in the time available. For instance, if
player A has much more time left than player B, then A will sometimes make a move
that greatly complicates thesituation, in thehopes ofgaining an advantage because he
hasmoretimetoworkouttheproperstrategy.
478 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representatio