ive(bus21, home, school) action, it constructs a plan which does not have the board(aditi, bus) action. The detailed algorithm is left as an (advanced) exercise for the reader. For hints and a statement on soundness of P?, the reader is referred to (Koehler et al., 1997) 10.1.7 Conformant Graphplan Very often a planning agent has to deal with uncertain information. This uncertainty can be of different forms. The agent may not know the world completely, or the actions of an agent may not have well-defined effects. We humans face such problems all the time, and have evolved many approaches to address these problems. These include exploiting experience and knowledge based methods, and also probabilistic reasoning. We will explore some of these approaches in later chapters. Here, we look at the problem in the framework of automatic planning. One approach to planning in the face of uncertain world knowledge is called contingent planning (Weld et al., 1998), (Majercik and Littman, 2003), (Albore et al., 2009). The idea here is to do more than find a simple plan. Instead, the aim is to synthesize a plan which can cater to more than one situation. The plans produced in contingent planning incorporate sensing steps that help decide between different courses of actions, all encapsulated in the plan. Bridge players are used to planning the play of their hands in a contingent fashion. For example, a bridge player might play a few cards in a suit to test how the cards in that suit are divided amongst the opponents. Depending upon the outcome, she chooses one of competing courses of further action. Contingent planning happens in many real world situations. A group of friends planning an evening out may go and try for some movie tickets, and if not available may fall back to visiting a park. Some well known puzzles are problems of contingent planning. For example, the problem of identifying the defective (heavier or lighter) ball from a set of twelve balls, using a pair of weighin