lbumthatcontains everysongthat Joehas written.
j. Joeownsacopyofanalbum thathas Billie Holidaysinging The Man ILove. k. Joe owns a copy of every album that has a song sung by Mc Cartney. (Of course, each
differentalbumisinstantiated inadifferentphysical CD.)
l. Joeownsacopyofeveryalbumonwhichallthesongsaresungby Billie Holiday.
9
INFERENCE IN
FIRST-ORDER LOGIC
In which we define effective procedures for answering questions posed in first-
orderlogic.
Chapter7showedhowsoundandcompleteinferencecanbeachievedforpropositionallogic.
In this chapter, we extend those results to obtain algorithms that can answer any answer-
ablequestion statedinfirst-orderlogic. Section9.1introduces inference rulesforquantifiers
andshowshowtoreducefirst-orderinference topropositional inference, albeitatpotentially
great expense. Section 9.2 describes the idea of unification, showing how it can be used
to construct inference rules that work directly with first-order sentences. We then discuss
three major families of first-order inference algorithms. Forward chaining and its applica-
tionstodeductivedatabasesandproductionsystemsarecoveredin Section9.3;backward
chainingandlogic programmingsystems aredeveloped in Section 9.4. Forwardandback-
ward chaining can be very efficient, but are applicable only to knowledge bases that can
be expressed as sets of Horn clauses. General first-order sentences require resolution-based
theoremproving,whichisdescribed in Section9.5.
9.1 PROPOSITIONAL VS. FIRST-ORDER INFERENCE
This section and the next introduce the ideas underlying modern logical inference systems.
Webegin with some simple inference rules that can be applied to sentences with quantifiers
toobtain sentences without quantifiers. These rules lead naturally tothe idea that first-order
inference can be done by converting the knowledge base to propositional logic and using
propositional inference, which we already know how to do. The next section points out an
obviousshortcut, leadingtoinference metho