mbolic systems do not handle multiple, related shades of meaning very well. Consider the sentence, The newspaper changed its format. Usually, the word newspaper is interpreted either as (1) something made of black and white paper or (2) a group of people in charge of producing a daily 404 Artificial Intelligence RO teamed periodical. In the sentence above, however, it is impossible to choose between the two readings. In symbolic systems, different word senses are represented as independent atomic objects. Connectionist models offer several ways of maintaining multiple meanings: the simultaneous activations of different units (localist), the superposition of activity patterns (distributed), and the choice of intermediate feature vectors. The third method involves choosing a representation that shares some features of one meaning and some feature of another, but the intermediate representation itself has no single, corresponding symbolic coneept. A major part of this book has been devoted to the study of search in symbolic systems. It is difficult to see how connectionist systems will tackle difficult problems that state-space search addresses (e.g., chess, theorem-proving, and planning). Parallel relaxation search, however, does have some advantages over symbolic search. First of all, it maps naturally onto highly parallel hardware. When such hardware becomes widely available, parallel relaxation methods will be extremely efficient. More importantly, parallel relaxation search may prove even more efficient because it makes use of states that have no analogues in symbolic search. We saw this phenomenon briefly in Section 18.3.3 when we eonsidered a Hopfield network that comes up with short traveling salesman tours. In the process of settling into a solution state, the network enters and exits many impossible states, such as ones in which a city is visited twice, or ones in which the traveler is in two places at the same time. Eventually, a valid solution state falls o