ection 16.2, we will take a closer look at the central problems in NLP identified above. We will focus our attention on some representative approaches aimed at addressing these problems. Two Schools of Thought Before we begin our discussion on specific techniques to address NLP problems, it may be worth noting that there are principally two schools of thought in NLP, namely the rationalistic one and the empirical one. Till the mid-eighties, NLP systems were built using hand coded grammars and symbolic rules. There were two main limitations of this so called rationalistic approach. First, such systems were brittle and often restricted to specific domains. A classic example is the SHRDLU system (Winograd, 1971) built by Terry Winograd as part of his PhD at MIT. The system could build a dialog about a world of toy blocks and move blocks around based on commands in a natural language. Secondly, developing these systems needed a lot of manual intervention for knowledge engineering. These limitations were critical bottlenecks in the way of development and field deployment of real world NLP systems. Empirical methods in NLP were motivated by the need to address these limitations and gained prominence in the nineties and continues to dominate the bulk of NLU work reported today. Empirical NLU relies on statistical machine learning on a corpus. Given a collection of naturally occurring sentences as input, the aim is to algorithmically acquire useful information about the language. Empirical NLP has had much remarkable success in several language tasks such as syntactic and semantic analysis, machine translation, discourse analysis, information extraction and in speech processing, though many believe that it is not appealing from the cognitive standpoint. Noam Chomsky, one of the pioneers of the rationalist school of thought, proclaims that language cannot be learnt from data, and that most of language is innate to humans. This line of thinking has been popularized more recen