te representation simple by defining derived literals that
coverconditional effects. Bryceand Kambhampati(2007)discusshowaplanning graphcan
begeneralized togenerategoodheuristics forconformant andcontingent planning.
There has been some confusion in the literature between the terms conditional and contingent planning. Following Majercik and Littman (2003), we use conditional to
mean a plan (or action) that has different effects depending on the actual state of the world,
and contingent to mean a plan in which the agent can choose different actions depending
on the results of sensing. The problem of contingent planning received more attention after
thepublication of Drew Mc Dermott s(1978a)influential article, Planningand Acting.
The contingent-planning approach described in the chapter is based on Hoffmann and
Brafman (2005), and was influenced by the efficient search algorithms for cyclic AND OR
graphs developed by Jimenez and Torras (2000) and Hansen and Zilberstein (2001). Bertoli
et al. (2001b) describe MBP (Model-Based Planner), which uses binary decision diagrams
todoconformant andcontingent planning.
Inretrospect, itisnow possible to see how the majorclassical planning algorithms led
toextendedversionsforuncertaindomains. Fast-forwardheuristicsearchthroughstatespace
led to forward search in belief space (Bonet and Geffner, 2000; Hoffmann and Brafman,
2005); SATPLAN ledtostochastic SATPLAN (Majercikand Littman,2003)andtoplanning
withquantified Boolean logic (Rintanen, 2007); partial order planning led to UWL (Etzioni
et al., 1992) and CNLP (Peot and Smith, 1992); GRAPHPLAN led to Sensory Graphplan or
SGP (Weldetal.,1998).
434 Chapter 11. Planningand Actinginthe Real World
The first online planner with execution monitoring was PLANEX (Fikes et al., 1972),
which worked with the STRIPS planner to control the robot Shakey. The NASL planner
(Mc Dermott, 1978a) treated a planning problem simply as a specification for carrying out a
complex action, so that execution 