ed the exam take it today. And the subject of the main sentence can be filled in as you, the default subject for imperative sentences. This approach is usually more efficient than the previous two techniques. [ts major disadvantage is that it requires interactions among the rules of the grammar to be made explicit in the rules for moving components from one place to another. The interpreter often becomes ad hoc, rather than being simple and driven exclusively from the grammar. Wait and See Follow only one path, but rather than making decisions about the function of each component as it is encountered, procrastinate the decision until] enough information is available to make the decision correctly. Using this approach, when the word have of our example is encountered, it would be recorded as some kind of verb whose function is, as yet, unknown. The following noun phrase would then be interpreted and recorded simply as a noun phrase. Then, when the next word is encountered, a decision can be made about how all the constituents encountered so far should be combined. Although several parsers have used some form of wait-and-see strategy, one, PARSIFAL {Marcus, 1980], relies on it exclusively. Jt uses a small, fixed-size buffer in which constituents can be stored until their purpose can be decided upon. This approach is very efficient, but it does have the drawback that if the amount of lookahead that is necessary is greater than the size of the buffer, then the interpreter will fail. But the sentences on which it fails are exactly those on which people have trouble, apparently because they choose one interpretation, which proves to be Wrong. A classic example of this phenomenon, called the garden path sentence, is The horse raced past the barn fell down. Although the problems of deciding which paths to follow and how to handle backtracking are common to all search processes, they are complicated in the case of language understanding by the existence of genuinely ambiguou