lated concepts. (3) generalization of items having common features and the formation of specialized conceptual categories, and (4) specialization of concepts that have been over-generalized. Examples of these notions are given in the following section under memory organization with li-MOPs. Hypertext Hypertext systems are interesting examples of information organized through associative links, somewhat like semantic or associative networks. These systems are interactive window systems connected to a data base through associative links. Unlike normal text which is read in a linear fashion, hypertext can be browsed in a nonlinear way by moving through a network of information nodes which are linked bidirectionally through associative relationships. Users of hypertext systems can wander through the data base scanning text and graphics, creating new information nodes and linkages or modify existing ones. This approach to documentation use is said to more closely match the cognitive process. It provides a new approach to information access and organization for authors, researchers, and other users of large bodies of information. 11.4 MEMORY ORGANIZATION SYSTEMS HAM, a Model of Memory One of the earliest computer models of memory wasthe Human Associative Memor\ (HAM) system developed by John Anderson and Gordon Bower (1973). This memory is organized as a network of propositional binary trees. An example of a simple tree which represents the statement ''In a park a hippie touched a debutante'' is illustrated in Figure 11.6. When an informant asserts this statement to HAM, the system parses the sentence and builds a binary tree representation. Nodes in the tree are assigned unique numbers, while links are labeled with the following functions: C: context for tree fact P: predicate C: set membership R: relation F: a fact S: subject L: a location T: time 0: object Sec. 11.4 Memory Organization Systems 221 71\ y9\ L park psi hipo.e 4 5 II ligure 11.6 Organt,ation ol kdo. tou Ch