his part of the book, we return to the topic of knowledge and examine specific techniques that can be used for representing and manipulating knowledge within programs. 4.1 REPRESENTATIONS AND MAPPINGS In order to solve the complex problems encountered in artificial intelligence, one needs both a large amount of knowledge and some mechanisms for manipulating that knowledge to create solutions to new problems. A variety of ways of representing knowledge (facts) have been exploited in AI programs. But before we can talk about them individually, we must consider the following point that pertains to all discussions of representation, namely that we are dealing with two different kinds of entities: 77 e Facts: truths in some relevant world. These are the things we want to represent. Representations of facts in some chosen formalism. These are the things we will actually be able to manipulate. One way to think of structuring these entities is as two levels: The knowledge level, at which facts (including each agent s behaviors and current goals) are described. 80 Artificial Intelligence sean e The symbol level, at which representations of objects at the knowledge level are defined in terms of symbols that can be manipulated by programs. Reasoning See Newell [1982| for a detailed exposition of this view programs in the context of agents and their goals and behaviors. In the [ * Internal . . Facts a rest of our discussion here, we will follow a model more like +, [Representations the one shown in Fig. 4.1. Rather than thinking of one level English English on top of another, we will focus on facts, on representations, understanding generation and on the two-way mappings that must exist between them. English We will call these links representation mappings. The forward Representation representation mapping maps from facts to representations. Fig. 4.1. Mappings between Facts and The backward representation mapping goes the other way, Representations from representations to facts