(Flat,Axle)
Leave Overnight At(Flat,Axle) At(Flat,Axle)
Leave Overnight At(Spare,Axle) At(Spare,Axle) At(Spare,Axle)
Put On(Spare,Axle) At(Spare,Axle) At(Flat,Ground) At(Flat,Ground) At(Flat,Ground)
At(Flat,Ground) At(Flat,Ground) At(Spare,Ground) At(Spare,Ground) At(Spare,Ground)
At(Spare,Ground) At(Spare,Ground)
Figure10.10 The planninggraphforthe spare tire problemafterexpansionto level S .
2
Mutexlinksareshownasgraylines. Notalllinksareshown,becausethegraphwouldbetoo
clutteredifweshowedthemall. Thesolutionisindicatedbyboldlinesandoutlines. Interference: Remove(Flat,Axle)ismutexwith Leave Overnight becauseonehasthe
precondition At(Flat,Axle)andtheotherhasitsnegationasaneffect. Competing needs: Put On(Spare,Axle) is mutex with Remove(Flat,Axle) because
onehas At(Flat,Axle)asaprecondition andtheotherhasitsnegation. Inconsistentsupport: At(Spare,Axle)ismutexwith At(Flat,Axle)in S becausethe
2
only way of achieving At(Spare,Axle) is by Put On(Spare,Axle), and that is mutex
withthepersistence actionthatistheonlywayofachieving At(Flat,Axle). Thus,the
mutexrelations detect theimmediate conflict that arises from trying toput twoobjects
inthesameplaceatthesametime.
This time, when wego back to the start of the loop, all the literals from the goal are present
in S , and none of them is mutex with any other. That means that a solution might exist,
2
and EXTRACT-SOLUTION will try to find it. We can formulate EXTRACT-SOLUTION as a
Boolean constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) where the variables are the actions at each
level,thevaluesforeachvariableareinoroutoftheplan,andtheconstraintsarethemutexes
andtheneedtosatisfyeachgoalandprecondition.
Alternatively,wecandefine EXTRACT-SOLUTIO Nasabackwardsearchproblem,where
each stateinthesearch contains apointertoalevelintheplanning graph and asetofunsat-
isfiedgoals. Wedefinethissearchproblem asfollows: The initial state is the last level of the planning graph, S , along with the set of goals
n
fromtheplanning problem. The actions av