 For example, FILLS :FanOf gerrard is the set of all fans of Gerrard, and FILLS :Study ai is the set of people who study Al. AND dj, do, ..., d, is the set of all those elements that are of the type d, and dp, ... and dp. MAND 11, do, .... dp) May Mg 1... Mp For example, AND Student Girl FILLS :Study ail is the set of all girl students who study Al. Figure 14.24 illustrates the composition of new concepts using the four concept forming operators. The arrows represent the roles. Elements shaded black are the ones belonging to the new concept. AND dj dy dg FIGURE 14.24 The four concept forming operators. The arrow represents the relation r. The members of the set or concept formed are shown in black filled circles. Given a set of atomic concepts and roles, one may define complex concepts using the concept forming operators. For example, we could define a class of films that has at least 2 villains, 4 songs, and all whose actors are more than 12 years old and live in Mumbai, as follows: (AND Film EXISTS 2 :Villain EXISTS 4 :Scng ALL :Actor AND FILLS :MinAge 12 (FILLS :LivesIn mumbai The sentences of DL assert the s-A and Instance-Of relations described in the beginning of the chapter. The s-A relation is expressed using and the Instance-Of using . In addition, DL uses to express the fact that two concepts are equivalent. The following are the sentences of the language DL, If dy and dy are concepts then (d, dz), read as d, is subsumed by do, is a sentence. The sentence is true if (d,) S Md). If d, and dp are concepts then (d, d2), read as d, is equivalent to do, is a sentence. The sentence is true if I(d) M(d2). If cis a constant and d is a concept, then (cd), read as c satisfies d, is a sentence. The sentence is true if (c)e I(d). The equivalence sentence can be used to define and give names to new concepts. For example, we might want to name the class of films defined above as BFormulaFilm. We can do so by the statement, BFormulaFilm AND Film (EXISTS 2 :Villain (EXIST