healgorithm checks toseeifthesingularextension isalegalmove;ifit
is, the algorithm allows the moveto be considered. This makes the tree deeper, but because
therewillbefewsingularextensions, itdoesnotaddmanytotalnodestothetree.
5.4.3 Forwardpruning
So far, we have talked about cutting off search at a certain level and about doing alpha beta pruning that provably has no effect on the result (at least with respect to the heuristic
evaluation values). It is also possible to do forward pruning, meaning that some moves at
FORWARDPRUNING
a given node are pruned immediately without further consideration. Clearly, most humans
playing chess consider only a few moves from each position (at least consciously). One
approach to forward pruning is beam search: on each ply, consider only a beam of the n
BEAMSEARCH
bestmoves(according totheevaluation function)ratherthanconsidering allpossible moves.
Section5.4. Imperfect Real-Time Decisions 175
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
a b c d e f g h
Figure5.9 Thehorizoneffect. With Black tomove,the blackbishopissurelydoomed.
But Blackcanforestallthateventbycheckingthewhitekingwithitspawns,forcingtheking
tocapturethepawns.Thispushestheinevitablelossofthebishopoverthehorizon,andthus
thepawnsacrificesareseenbythesearchalgorithmasgoodmovesratherthanbadones.
Unfortunately, this approach is rather dangerous because there is no guarantee that the best
movewillnotbeprunedaway.
The PROBCUT, or probabilistic cut, algorithm (Buro, 1995) is a forward-pruning ver-
sionofalpha betasearchthatusesstatisticsgainedfrompriorexperiencetolessenthechance
that the best move will be pruned. Alpha beta search prunes any node that is provably out-
side the current ( , ) window. PROBCUT also prunes nodes that are probably outside the
window. It computes this probability by doing a shallow search to compute the backed-up
valuev ofanodeandthenusing pastexperience toestimatehowlikely itisthatascoreof v
atdepthdinthetreewouldbeoutside ( , ). Buroappliedthistechniquetohis Othellopro-
gra