 genetic algorithm into a real multi-legged robot (imagine a millipede or a centipede-like robot) so that it will evolve and learn to find the best gait in the real world? CHAPTER 24 ARTIFICIAL IMMUNE SYSTEMS When we are ll we realise that we do not exist alone but are chained to a different domain, from which we are separated by an abyss, which doesn't Know us and by which tt is impossible to make ourselves understood: Our body Marcel Proust (1871-1922), French novelist, essayist and critic 24.1 INTRODUCTION When man was at his wits end he started looking at Mother Nature for better and wiser solutions. For ages he observed nature's intricate yet subtle mechanisms that facilitate classifying and memorizing, foraging to find optimal paths to food sources and preservation of the self by both defence and aggression. Studies conducted on these mechanisms have yielded altogether new computational paradigms that have helped model workable and feasible solutions for the real world. More recently the biological immune system has been in the limelight. The biological immune system, one of the many places where the search for solutions to complex problems was carried out, is still in a state of theoretical infancy. Theoretical immunology is based on biological tests. Only a portion of it has been empirically tested and proved. An understanding of the actual mechanism still remains elusive. Artificial Immune Systems are currently all set to find their way into diverse areas of Computer Science. This Chapter describes some of the significant aspects of the biological immune system and elucidates the manner in which algorithms modeled from them have been put to use in various fields. It may be emphasized here that though the biological perspective has not been detailed herein as it is beyond the scope of this book, an understanding of the immune system as a whole is imperative for developing newer and more efficient immune based algorithms and applications. Readers are urged to