) or some events ( Akira knows that the flight had taken off ) or even beliefs ( Drona believed that Aswathama had been killed ), then one has to add the corresponding formulas as reified objects that can be the argument to the formulas for knowledge and belief. One of the first approaches, employed by Hintikka (1962), was to introduce a modal operator K,( a) to stand for Agent a knows a . The semantics of the operator is the commonly accepted Kripke s possible worlds semantics, that a is true in all possible worlds compatible with a s knowledge. Adopting a logical formalism one can reason about who knows what and (assuming that the agents are equally adept) come up with answers to puzzles involving common knowledge (see for example (Halpern and Moses, 1984), (Halpern, 1984), (Lehmann, 1984), (Stewart, 1998), and (Moses et al., 1986)). We will not foray into Modal Logics here, but rely on the observation by McCarthy (McCarthy, 1986) that the many world semantics can be achieved in practice by imagining many worlds, parameterized by situation names, and then relying on the truth functional semantics of FOL. Moreover, we move away from the deductive form of reasoning and look at other ways in which knowledge can be represented and usefully employed. We begin by looking at knowledge and belief as modeled by the Conceptual Dependency (CD) theory of Roger Schank. The question of what fluents an agent needs to define is still an open question. The work in logic focuses more on the reasoning aspect and assumes that the predicates and actions have already been defined. For most illustrative purposes researchers tend to use predicates and action names chosen in an ad hoc manner from natural languages. This brings in the associated richness of natural language vocabularies, but along with that also the problems of dealing with synonyms, hyponyms, hypernyms, homonyms, meronyms, paronyms and so on. The use of natural language words also leaves the problem of translation between