n images. Often, forearms and shins are as small as two to three pixels wide. Body
parts do not usually appear on their own, and representing what is connected to what could
bequitepowerful,becausepartsthatareeasytofindmighttelluswheretolookforpartsthat
aresmallandhardtodetect.
Inferring thelayoutofhumanbodies inpictures isanimportant taskinvision, because
the layout of the body often reveals what people are doing. A model called a deformable
DEFORMABLE templatecantelluswhichconfigurations areacceptable: theelbowcanbendbuttheheadis
TEMPLATE
neverjoinedtothefoot. Thesimplestdeformabletemplatemodelofapersonconnectslower
armstoupperarms,upperarmstothetorso,andsoon. Therearerichermodels: forexample,
958 Chapter 24. Perception
we could represent the fact that left and right upper arms tend to have the same color and
texture,asdoleftandrightlegs. Theserichermodelsremaindifficulttoworkwith,however.
24.5.1 The geometry ofbodies: Finding arms andlegs
For the moment, we assume that we know what the person s body parts look like (e.g., we
know the color and texture of the person s clothing). We can model the geometry of the
body asatreeofeleven segments (upperandlowerleftandright armsandlegsrespectively,
a torso, a face, and hair on top of the face) each of which is rectangular. We assume that
theposition andorientation (pose)oftheleftlowerarmisindependent ofallothersegments
POSE
given the pose of the left upper arm; that the pose of the left upper arm is independent of
all segments given the pose of the torso; and extend these assumptions in the obvious way
to include the right arm and the legs, the face, and the hair. Such models are often called cardboardpeople models. Themodelformsatree,whichisusuallyrootedatthetorso. We
willsearchtheimageforthebestmatchtothiscardboardpersonusinginferencemethodsfor
atree-structured Bayesnet(see Chapter14).
There are two criteria for evaluating a configuration. First, an image rectangle should
looklikeitssegment. Forthemoment,wewillremainva