dvantage that there is no need to identify a landmark before the range scan can be
interpreted; indeed, in Figure 25.8(b), the robot faces a featureless wall. On the other hand,
ifthere arevisible, identifiable landmarks, theymayprovideinstant localization.
Chapter 15 described the Kalman filter, which represents the belief state as a single
multivariate Gaussian, andtheparticle filter,whichrepresents thebeliefstatebyacollection
of particles that correspond to states. Most modern localization algorithms use one of two
representations oftherobot s belief P(X t z 1:t ,a 1:t 1 ).
MONTECARLO Localization using particle filtering is called Monte Carlo localization, or MCL. The
LOCALIZATION
MC Lalfgorithm isaninstance oftheparticle-filtering algorithm of Figure15.17(page598).
All we need to do is supply the appropriate motion model and sensor model. Figure 25.9
showsoneversionusingtherange-scanmodel. Theoperationofthealgorithmisillustratedin
Figure25.10astherobotfindsoutwhereitisinsideanofficebuilding. Inthefirstimage,the
particles areuniformly distributed based ontheprior, indicating globaluncertainty aboutthe
robot s position. In the second image, the first set of measurements arrives and the particles
form clusters in the areas of high posterior belief. In the third, enough measurements are
available topushalltheparticles toasinglelocation.
The Kalman filter is the other major way to localize. A Kalman filter represents the
posterior P(X t z 1:t ,a 1:t 1 )bya Gaussian. Themeanofthis Gaussianwillbedenoted t and
itscovariance . Themainproblemwith Gaussianbeliefsisthattheyareonly closedunder
t
linearmotionmodelsf andlinearmeasurementmodels h. Fornonlinear f orh,theresultof
updating a filteris in general not Gaussian. Thus, localization algorithms using the Kalman
filter linearize the motion and sensor models. Linearization is a local approximation of a
LINEARIZATION
nonlinear function by a linear function. Figure 25.11 illustrates the concept of linearization
fora(one-dim