 Manhattan distance as the heuristic function. Assume that each unit on the grid is 10 kilometres. . For the same task, assuming beam width 2, (a) Show the order in which the Beam Search expands the nodes and the h-value at the time of expansion. (b) Disclose the OPEN and CLOSED list maintained by the Beam Search at each level till the search terminates. Does the algorithm reach the goal? If yes, what is the path found. 8. When would you prefer the Hill Climbing algorithm to the Tabu Search algorithm, and vice versa? Give reasons for your answer. 9. Given the SAT problem with 5 clauses: ( a V AAC V b)A eV d) a (Ad V Ab) A (a V ), assume that the evaluation heuristic function is the number of clauses satisfied. Let the solution vector be in the order (a b c d). Let the starting candidate be (0 0 0 0). Show 3 expansions of the Tabu search assuming t 2 (that is tabu tenure is 2). Show the new candidate as well as the tabu moves at each of the three stages. Also, draw a table showing which clauses are true for each candidate. 10. Write a program to randomly generate k-SAT problems. The program must accept values for k, m the number of clauses in the formula, and n the number of variables. Each clause of length k must contain distinct variables or their negation. Instances generated by this algorithm belong to fixed clause length model of SAT and are known as Uniform Random k-SAT problems. a op FIGURE 3.22 Problem graph 1. Locations A to Q are located on a grid with each square side being 10 km. FIGURE 3.23 Problem graph 2. Locations A to Q are located on a grid with each square side being 10 km. 11. Write programs to solve a set of Uniform Random 3-SAT problems for different combinations of m and n, and compare their performance. Try the Hill Climbing algorithm, Beam Search with beam widths of 3 and 4, Variable Neighbourhood Descent with 3 neighbourhood functions, and Tabu Search with neighbourhood functions changing up to 2 bits at a time. (It has been shown that for a