nce of others in the form of advice and books. In the following chapters, we will explore how domain knowledge can be represented in a way appropriate for the reasoning tasks, and also how problem solving experience itself can be represented, accrued, and exploited. Humans resort to knowledge and experience extensively while solving problems. Human memory is the seat of this knowledge, and we refer to this problem solving approach as memory based reasoning. How does all this knowledge find its way into the memory? The most straightforward way is by simply storing experiences. Experiences may be stored directly, or though a process of generalization and modularization and are expressed in the form of rules of thumb. Figure 11.2 depicts the architecture of a knowledge based problem solving agent, that predominantly uses knowledge to solve problems, but if the need arises, invokes a first principles search based approach to solve problems it cannot solve directly using the stored knowledge. Experience accrues as the agent solves more and more problems. Knowledge based reasoning Problem exploiling memory, expenence, Solution and rules of thumb Model based reasoning by first principles using search methods FIGURE 11.2 Humans primarily use knowledge to solve a problem. Often we know the solution for a familiar problem. When we do not then a first principles approach based on search is the recourse. The first principles solutions can be stored in the memory for later reuse. The agent s own experience is not the only source of knowledge. The human species has thrived and become dominant because we have learnt to share knowledge, and have invented languages to do so. Traditionally, storytelling has been a form of knowledge transfer in all societies. Similes, metaphors and idioms are devices to capture nuggets of distilled knowledge. One can benefit from the accumulated knowledge of an author far removed in time and space simply by reading her book. Languages like English, Ur