iction.
Now that we have established that there is always a resolution proof involving some
finite subset of the Herbrand base of S, the next step is to show that there is a resolution
352 Chapter 9. Inference in First-Order Logic
GO DEL S INCOMPLETENESS THEOREM
Byslightly extending thelanguage offirst-orderlogic toallow forthe mathemat-
ical induction schema in arithmetic, Kurt Go del was able to show, in his incom-
pletenesstheorem,thattherearetruearithmetic sentences thatcannotbeproved.
The proof of the incompleteness theorem is somewhat beyond the scope of
thisbook, occupying, asitdoes, atleast30pages, butwecangiveahinthere. We
beginwiththelogical theory ofnumbers. Inthis theory, there isasingle constant,
0, and a single function, S (the successor function). In the intended model, S(0)
denotes 1, S(S(0)) denotes 2, and soon; the language therefore has names forall
thenaturalnumbers. Thevocabulary alsoincludesthefunctionsymbols , ,and
Expt (exponentiation) andtheusualsetoflogicalconnectivesandquantifiers. The
firststepistonoticethatthesetofsentencesthatwecanwriteinthislanguagecan
be enumerated. (Imagine defining an alphabetical order on the symbols and then
arranging, in alphabetical order, each of the sets of sentences of length 1, 2, and
so on.) We can then number each sentence with a unique natural number (the Go del number). This is crucial: number theory contains a name for each of
its own sentences. Similarly, we can number each possible proof P with a Go del
number G(P),becauseaproofissimplyafinitesequence ofsentences.
Now suppose we have a recursively enumerable set A of sentences that are
true statements about the natural numbers. Recalling that A can be named by a
givensetofintegers,wecanimaginewritinginourlanguage asentence (j,A)of
thefollowingsort: i i is not the Go del number of a proof of the sentence whose Go del
numberisj,wheretheproofusesonlypremisesin A.
Thenlet bethesentence ( ,A),thatis,asentencethatstatesitsownunprov-
abilityfrom A. (Thatthis