can be used to select a measurement point (de Kleer and Brown, 1987). The details of this approach are beyond the scope of this text. However, we present a simpler approach presented by de Kleer (1990) in a subsequent paper. The approach is based on the following assumptions. 1. All components fail independently and with equal probability. 2. Each component fails with an extremely small probability. 3. We are interested in discriminating only between the smallest cardinality diagnosis candidates that remain in the fray. Given the assumption that components fail with an extremely small probability, the diagnosis which says that the smallest number of elements has failed is the most credible. This can be seen to follow from Occam s razor"? or the principle of parsimony that says that the simplest explanation is most likely to be the correct one? . The approach presented by de Kleer is as follows. Let us say that in the set of minimal candidates for diagnosis the smallest cardinality of a diagnosis is Q. Let X be a possible measurement point with possible values v1 ... Vx . Then, the score S(X) for making a measurement of X is, SCX) 2h j 4 CG In(G) where C; is the number of diagnosis of cardinality Q which predict the value v;, and n is the natural logarithm. The measurement point with the lowest score is the best candidate. In our example, given that F ; 10 and F2 12, there two lowest cardinality diagnosis candidates, M1 and A , and Q 1. The set of values and the corresponding singleton diagnosis that predict them are, C1 4 M C1 6 A Cz 6 Aj , M7 C3 6 Aj , M7 The last two sentences should be read as Mj predicts C. 6, as does A 7 . Therefore, S(C1) 1 x In(1) 1 In(1) 0 S(Cy) 2 x In(2) 1.4 S(C3) 2 In(2) 1.4 indicating that measuring at C, is the best choice. The interested reader can find the derivation of the above expression in de Kleer s paper. 17.3.4 Fault Models The consistency based diagnosis approach we have seen so far works with models in which component behaviou