ve since they are created using abductive reasoning. If they have the property that they are not unnecessarily valid, they are said to be complete. Lies Bel-L Figure 7.12 shows a complete abductive justification for the belief that Babbitt s brother-in-law lied. If we come to believe that Abbott or Cabot is a suspect, or we find a longlost relative, or we somehow come to believe that Babbitt s gays 0 B.-L Suspect Abbott. Suspect Cabot brother-in-law didn t really say Babbitt was at his house, then this justification for lying will become invalid. At this point, we have described the key reasoning operations that are performed by a JTMS: Other Suspects Fig. 7.12 A Complete Abductive Justification consistent labeling contradiction resolution We have also described a set of important reasoning operations that a JTMS does not perform, including: applying rules to derive conclusions creating justifications for the results of applying rules (although justifications are created as part of contradiction resolution) choosing among alternative ways of resolving a contradiction detecting contradictions All of these operations must be performed by the problem-solving program that is using the JTMS. In the next section, we describe a slightly different kind of TMS, in which, although the first three of these operations must still be performed by the problem-solving system, the last can be performed by the TMS. 7.5.3 Logic-Based Truth Maintenance Systems A logic-based truth maintenance system (LTMS) [Mc Allester, 1980] is very similar to a JTMS. It differs in one important way. In a JTMS, the nodes in the network are treated as atoms by the TMS, which assumes no relationships among them except the ones that are explicitly stated in the justifications. In particular, a JIMS has no problem simultaneously labeling both P and - P IN. For example, we could have represented explicitly both Lies B-I-L and Not Lies B-J-L and labeled both of them IN. No contradiction will be detected auto