 output node. The inputs to the network are the eight possible binary patterns 000. 001 .....Ill. Find weights u for which the network can differentiate between the inputs by producing three distinct outputs. 15.20. For the preceding problem, draw projection vectors on the unit circle for the eight different inputs using the weights determined there. 15.21. Explain how uncertainty is propagated through a chain of rules during a consultation with an expertsystem which is based on the MYCIN architecture. 15.22. Select a problem domain that requires some special expertise and consult with an 356 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 expert in the domain to learn how he or she solves typical problems. After collecting enough knowledge to solve a small subset of problems, create rules which could be used in a knowledge base to solve the problems. Test the use of the rules on a few problems which have been suggested by the expert and then get his other confirmation. 15.23. Relate each of the heuristics given by Penny Nii in Section 15.5 to a real expert system solving problem. 15.24. Discuss how each of the features of expert system building tools given in Section 15.6 can affect the performance of the systems developed. 15.25. Obtain a copy of an expert system building tool such as Personal Consultant Plus and create an expert system to diagnose automobile engine problems. Consult with a mechanic to see if your completed system is reasonably good. PART 5 Knowledge Acquisition 'It ' 'U General Concepts in Knowledge Acquisition The success of knowledge-based systems lies in the quality and extent of the knowledge available to the system. Acquiring and validating a large corpus of consistent, correlated knowledge is not a trivial problem. This has given the acquisition process an especially important role in the design and implementation of these systems. Consequently, effective acquisition methods have become one of the principal challenges for the Al research community. 1