he problem from scratch. Explanation-based
learning takes this a good deal further, by creating general rules that cover an entire class
of cases. In the case of differentiation, memoization would remember that the derivative of
X2 withrespect to X is2X,butwouldleavetheagenttocalculate thederivativeof Z2 with
respect to Z from scratch. We would like to be able to extract the general rule that for any
arithmetic unknown u, the derivative of u2 with respect to u is 2u. (An even more general
rule for un can also be produced, but the current example suffices to make the point.) In
logicalterms,thisisexpressed bytherule
Arithmetic Unknown(u) Derivative(u2,u) 2u.
Section19.3. Explanation-Based Learning 781
Ifthe knowledge base contains such arule, then anynew case that isaninstance ofthis rule
canbesolvedimmediately.
Thisis,ofcourse,merelyatrivialexampleofaverygeneral phenomenon. Oncesome-
thing is understood, it can be generalized and reused in other circumstances. It becomes an obvious stepandcanthenbeusedasabuilding blockinsolving problems still morecom-
plex. Alfred North Whitehead (1911), co-author with Bertrand Russell of Principia Mathe-
matica, wrote Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations that
wecandowithoutthinking aboutthem, perhapshimselfapplying EB Ltohisunderstanding
of events such as Zog s discovery. If you have understood the basic idea of the differenti-
ation example, then your brain is already busily trying to extract the general principles of
explanation-based learning fromit. Noticethatyouhadn t already invented EB Lbefore you
saw the example. Like the cavemen watching Zog, you (and we) needed an example before
we could generate the basic principles. This is because explaining why something is a good
ideaismucheasierthancomingupwiththeideainthefirstplace.
19.3.1 Extracting general rules from examples
Thebasic idea behind EB Lisfirst toconstruct anexplanation ofthe observation using prior
knowledge, and then to establish a