umbers with log (22n ) 2n bits to label the
2
currentbeliefstate. Thatis,exactstateestimationmayrequirelogicalformulaswhosesizeis
exponential inthenumberofsymbols.
Onevery common and natural scheme for approximate state estimation is to represent
beliefstatesasconjunctionsofliterals,thatis,1-CN Fformulas. Todothis,theagentprogram
simply tries to prove Xt and Xt for each symbol Xt (as well as each atemporal symbol
whose truth value is not yet known), given the belief state at t 1. The conjunction of
Section7.7. Agents Basedon Propositional Logic 271
Figure 7.21 Depiction of a 1-CNF belief state (bold outline) as a simply representable,
conservative approximation to the exact (wiggly) belief state (shaded region with dashed
outline).Eachpossibleworldisshownasacircle;theshadedonesareconsistentwithallthe
percepts.
provableliteralsbecomesthenewbeliefstate,andthepreviousbeliefstateisdiscarded.
Itis important to understand that this scheme maylose some information as timegoes
along. Forexample, if the sentence in Equation (7.4) were the true belief state, then neither
P nor P would be provable individually and neither would appear in the 1-CNF belief
3,1 2,2
state. (Exercise 7.27 explores one possible solution to this problem.) On the other hand,
because every literal in the 1-CNF belief state is proved from the previous belief state, and
the initial belief state is a true assertion, we know that entire 1-CNF belief state must be
true. Thus, thesetofpossible statesrepresented bythe1-CN Fbeliefstateincludes allstates
that are in fact possible given the full percept history. As illustrated in Figure 7.21, the 1-
CONSERVATIVE CN Fbeliefstateactsasasimpleouterenvelope,orconservativeapproximation,aroundthe
APPROXIMATION
exact belief state. We see this idea of conservative approximations to complicated sets as a
recurring themeinmanyareasof AI.
7.7.4 Making plans by propositional inference
Theagentin Figure7.20useslogicalinference todetermine whichsquaresaresafe,butuses A search