ctures. It also requires thorough validation and verification of the completed knowledge base, operations which have yet to be perfected. An intelligent" editor can greatly simplify We process of-building a knowledge base. TEIRESIAS (Davis. 1982) is an example of an intelligent editor developed to assist users in building a knowledge base directly without the need for an intermediary knowledge engineer. TEIRESIUS was developed to work with systems like MYCIN in providing a direct user-to-system dialog. TEIRESIUS assists the user in formulating, checking, and modifying rules for inclusion in the performance program's knowledge base. For this. TEIRESIUS uses some metaknowledge, that is, knowledge about MYCIN's knowledge. The dialog is carried out in a near English form so that the user needs to know little about the internal form of the rules. The I/O Interface The input-output interface permits the user to communicate with the system in a more natural way by permitting the use of simple selection menus or the use of a restricted language which is close to a natural language. This means that the system must have special prompts or a specialized vocabulary which encompasses the terminology of the given domain of expertise. For example, MYCIN can recognize many medical terms in addition to various common words needed to communicate. For this, MYCIN has a vocabulary of some 2000 words. Personal Consultant Plus, a commercial PC version of the MYCIN architecture, uses menus and English prompts to communicate with the user. The prompts, written in standard English, are provided by the developer during the system building stage How andwhy explanations are also given in natural language form. Sec. 15.3 Nonproducti Ofl System Architectures 337 The learning module and history file are not common components of expert systems. When they are provided, they are used to assist in building and refining the knowledge base. Since learning is treated in great detail in later chapters. n