to is a fruit. A tomato can be fried. A vegetable is a something that can be fried. Fruits cannot be fried. Something that can be fried is a kind of something that can be cooked. A vegetable is something that can be cooked. Remove the redundant statements from the above set. What are the credulous extensions of the resulting set of statements? 3. Write an algorithm to determine whether an edge in an inheritance graph is admissible or not with respect to an input node A. 4. Given an inheritance graph , an input node A, and a labelling of each edge saying whether it is admissible or not with respect to A, write an algorithm to find all extensions of the graph. 5. Allow the user to create an inheritance hierarchy graphically (or read from a file). Given a taxonomy, answer the question a p? Create extensions, identify the preferred extensions. 6. What are the credulous extensions with respect to a of the inheritance graph in Figure 14.22. Which of these are preferred? 7. Given the two concepts, d AND FILLS :FanOf beckenbauer FILLS :FanOf theKaiser and e EXISTS 2 :FanOf can we conclude that d e? What does the structure mapping algorithm say? Explain your answer. Hint: What do tokens map do? 8. Express the following sentences in FOL as well as in Description Logic. (a) A RichFooTween is a ten-year old person who has at least two friends and who is a football fan and all whose aunts are rich. (b) A JailHoParty is political party whose members are all unemployed with all siblings politicians, and which has at least two PM candidates and all whose ministers have at least two bodyguards, and two court cases. 9. Given the following two statements (Brachman and Levesque, 2004), marianne AND Person Female ellen AND EXISTS 1 :Child (ALL :Child AND FILLS :Pediatrician marriane (ALL :Pediatrician Scandainavian ) Show how the information about Marianne is augmented. 10. Express the following sentences in Description Logic. (a) Sachin plays for Mumbai Indians and has more than one mi