nowledge base, which is the decision tree for an identification system. can be constructed with a special tree-building ediior or with a learning module. In either case, a set of the most discriminating attributes for the class of objects being identified should he selected. Only those attributes that discriminate well among different objects need be used. Priiiissih Ie values for each of the attributes arc grouped into separable sets, and each such set determines a branch front attribute node to the next node. New nodes and branches can be added to the tree when additional attributes attrtxn 1 me. onie Ves no Y_ no o Iubiiily tell 153 A scrneni of a decision 11cc compound -38 compound-39 lure Sec. 15.3 Nonproducilon System Architectures 341 are needed to further discriminate among new objects. As the system gains experience, the values associated with the branches can be modified for more accurate results. Blackboard System Architectures Blackboard architectures refer to a special type of knowledge-based system which uses a form of opportunistic reasoning. This differs from pure forward or pure backward chaining in production systems in that either direction may be chosen dynamically at each stage in the problem solution process. Other reasoning methods (model driven, for example) may also be used. Blackboard systems are composed of three functional components as depicted in Figure 15.6. 1. There are a number of knowledge sources which are separate and independent sets of coded knowledge. Each knowledge source may be thought of as a specialist in some limited area needed to solve a given subset of problems. The sources may contain knowledge in the form of procedures, rules, or other schemes. 2. A globally accessible data base structure, called a blackboard, contains the current problem state and information needed by the knowledge sources (input data, partial solutions, control data, alternatives, final solutions). The knowledge sources make changes to the blackboa