the signals by mapping them to the representation of states and moves. Or consider a futuristic scenario in which a spy is being debriefed by a computer program. The spy narrates her story and the program has to understand it, and ask meaningful questions to fill any gaps that it might see. The problem of understanding is to map the incoming information into the internal representation. We focus on the task of natural language understanding. Does understanding happen in a bottom up fashion or in a top down fashion? By the former we mean that the agent makes sense of each word first, uses (grammar) rules to form phrases, and sentences. And finally builds the big picture by combining all parsed information in some context. By a top down process we mean working with a (hypothesized) structure in which gaps have to be filled. If we can somehow create a scaffolding of the final story, then all we need to put in are the details. Some of this scaffolding will come from world knowledge that we have. For example watching the last few minutes of soccer match and knowing the score we expect the team that is trailing to do something dramatic, and when they do we know why they did that. Or walking into a James Bond or an Indiana Jones movie we expect to see some pretty outlandish action, and devour the film with a suitably receptive frame of mind. Or listening to a khayal in Indian classical music we know the structure of the comp6sitiGH SAG Expect the notes and the rhythm to build up to a crescendo. When we have figured out what the raga is, we no longer need to. ake sense of the individual notes in a bottom up fashion. Rather we bring to fore our preconceived patterns in that raga and expect the notes to match them. It is top down reasoning that is responsible for humans seeing a face amongst the clouds, and it what predisposes us to a particular interpretation of an ambiguous optical image, or a sentence. Language understanding is also influenced by expectations of the listen