s argument and returns the first top element of thelist 3.3 Define a function called number-of-elements that takes a list as its ony argument and returns the number of top elements in the list. 3.4 Define a function called rotate that takes a list and rotates the elements by one position as in (rotate (a b c dl) returns (0 A B Q. 3.5 Define a function newlist that takes one argument and returns it as a list, lithe argument is already a list, including the empty list, newlist returns it without change. If the argument is an atom, it returns it as a list. 3.6 Define a function named addlist that takes two arguments, an item and a list. If the item is in the list, the function returns the list unaltered. If the item is not in the list. the function returns the list with the item entered as the first element. For example. (addlist c (a bed)) returns (a b dl but (addliat 'a '(a b C)) returns (a a b c). 3,7 Define a function construct-sentence which takes two lists as arguments. The lists are simple sentences such as (the dog barked) or (the dog chased the car). The function should check to see if the subject of the sentence is the same in both sentences. If so, the function should return the compound sentence (the dog barked and chased the car). If the two sentences do not have the same subject, the function should return DII. 3.8 Write a function called word-member which takes one list as argument. The function should print a prompt to the user (please type any word) If the word typed is a member of the list the function should return i, otherwise nil. For example, > (word-member '(the brown fox ran)) (please type any word) fox T Chap. 3 Exercises 3.9 Write a function talk that takes no arguments. It prints the prompt (without quotation - marks or parentheses) What is your name? The function should then read an input from the same line two spaces following the question mark (e.g., Susan), issue a line feed and carriage return, and then print Hello. Susan. What is your b