priate gift. Oneapparently has adirect
sense ofhow things are done andwhattoexpect. Thesameclaim ismadeinthe context of
chess playing: Amere chess mastermight need tofigure out whatto do, but a grandmaster
justseestheboardasdemandingacertainmove...therightresponsejustpopsintohisorher
head. Itiscertainlytruethatmuchofthethoughtprocessesofapresent-giverorgrandmaster
is done at a level that is not open to introspection by the conscious mind. But that does not
mean that the thought processes do not exist. The important question that Dreyfus does not
answer is how the right move gets into the grandmaster s head. One is reminded of Daniel
Dennett s(1984)comment,
Itisratherasifphilosophersweretoproclaimthemselvesexpertexplainersofthemeth-
ods of stage magicians, and then, when we ask how the magician does the sawing-the-
lady-in-halftrick,theyexplainthatitisreallyquiteobvious: themagiciandoesn treally
sawherinhalf;hesimplymakesitappearthathedoes. Buthowdoeshedothat? we
ask. Notourdepartment, saythephilosophers.
Dreyfus and Dreyfus (1986) propose a five-stage process of acquiring expertise, beginning
with rule-based processing (of the sort proposed in GOFAI) and ending with the ability to
select correct responses instantaneously. In making this proposal, Dreyfus and Dreyfus in
effectmovefrombeing AIcriticsto AItheorists theyproposeaneuralnetworkarchitecture
Section26.1. Weak AI:Can Machines Act Intelligently? 1025
organized into a vast case library, but point out several problems. Fortunately, all of their
problems havebeenaddressed, somewithpartialsuccess and somewithtotalsuccess. Their
problemsincludethefollowing:
1. Good generalization from examples cannot be achieved without background knowl-
edge. They claim no one has any idea how to incorporate background knowledge into
the neural network learning process. In fact, we saw in Chapters 19 and 20 that there
are techniques for using prior knowledge in learning algorithms. Those techniques,
however,relyontheavailability o