te C: set membership R: relation F: a fact S: subject L: a location T: time 0: object Sec. 11.4 Memory Organization Systems 221 71\ y9\ L park psi hipo.e 4 5 II ligure 11.6 Organt,ation ol kdo. tou Ch debutante in HAM. As HAM is informed of new sentences, they are parsed and formed into ne tree-like memory structures or integrated with existing ones. For example. to add the fact that the hippie was tall, the following .suhtree is attached to the tree structure of Figure 11.6 by merging the common node hippie (node 3) into a single node. 21 ,/3 patt 3. 24 hippie tall When HAM is posed with a query, it is formed into a tree structure called a probe. This structure is then matched against existing' memory structures for the best match. The Structure with the closest match is used to formulate an anser to the query. Matching is accomplished by first locating the leaf nodes in memory that match leaf nodes in the probe. The corresponding links are then checked to see it they.have the same labels and in the same order. The search process is constrained by searching only node groups that have the same relation links, based on reeene of usage. The search is not exhaustive and nodes accessed infrequently may be forgotten. Access to nodes in HAM is accomplished through word indexing in LISP (node words in tree structures are accessed directly through property lists or A-lists). Memory Organization with E-MOP Roger Schank and his students at Yale University have developed several computer systems which perform different functions related to the use of natural language 222 Knowledge Organization and Management Chap. 11 text, knowledge representation, and memory organization. One system of particular interest was developed by Janet Kolodner (1983a, 1983h, 1984) to study problems associated with the retrieval and organization of reconstructive memory. Her system. called CYRUS (Computerized Yale Retrieval and Updating System) stores episodes from the lives of former secretaries of 