ll,
why should maximizing the average utility be so special? What s wrong with an agent that
1 Classicaldecisiontheoryl Peavesthecurrentstate S0implicit,butwecouldmakeitexplicitbywriting
P(RESULT(a) s(cid:3) a,e) s
P(RESULT(s,a) s(cid:3) a)P(S0 s e).
612 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
maximizes the weighted sum of the cubes of the possible utilities, or tries to minimize the
worst possible loss? Could an agent act rationally just by expressing preferences between
states, without giving them numeric values? Finally, why should a utility function with the
required properties existatall? Weshallsee.
16.2.1 Constraints onrationalpreferences
Thesequestions canbeansweredbywritingdownsomeconstraints onthepreferences thata
rational agentshouldhaveandthenshowingthatthe ME Uprinciple canbederivedfromthe
constraints. Weusethefollowingnotation todescribe anagent spreferences:
A B theagentprefers Aover B.
A B theagentisindifferent between Aand B. A B theagentprefers Aover B orisindifferent betweenthem.
Now the obvious question is, what sorts of things are A and B? They could be states of the
world, but more often than not there is uncertainty about what is really being offered. For
example, an airline passenger who is offered the pasta dish or the chicken does not know
whatlurksbeneath thetinfoilcover.2 Thepastacouldbedelicious orcongealed, thechicken
juicyorovercooked beyondrecognition. Wecanthinkofthesetofoutcomes foreachaction
asalottery think ofeachactionasaticket. Alottery Lwithpossibleoutcomes S ,...,S
LOTTERY 1 n
thatoccurwithprobabilities p ,...,p iswritten
1 n
L p ,S ; p ,S ; ... p ,S .
1 1 2 2 n n
Ingeneral, each outcome S ofalottery canbeeither anatomicstate oranother lottery. The
i
primary issue for utility theory is to understand how preferences between complex lotteries
are related to preferences between the underlying states in those lotteries. To address this
issuewelistsixconstraints thatwerequire anyreasonable preference relationtoobey: Orderability: Given