 the order of a second. The Navigator is similar to the Science Operator in temporal scope and latency but focuses on the task of navigation. It receives directives from both the Mission Manager and the Science Operator and interprets them for the Executive. The Executive interfaces the agent with the AUV functional layer. It has close to zero latency, allowing no time for deliberation. T-REX has an explicit notion of time, measured in ticks, that is followed globally by all its subsystems. The state variables, or attributes, are arranged in timelines, like in the RA. Each state variable has a timeline associated with it. A timeline is a series of tokens which are temporally qualified assertions, predicates with specifications of start and end times defined as intervals over time. The following features of the timelines are instrumental in interaction between the teleo-reactors. Ownership Each timeline is owned by exactly one reactor, who decides what goals to instantiate. Other reactors may request new goals of that reactor, or modify their requests if the plan changes. The timeline is internal to its owner and external to other teleoreactors. Observations The owner of the timeline captures the current value of the timeline as observations. Goals Goals are desired future values of the timeline. Goals are requests for refinement into subgoals or commands. A teleo-reactor may recall a goal it had posted earlier. For example, the Mission Manager may have a science goal for which it needs the UAV to be taken to a certain place. It can specify this to the Navigator by setting a goal in the latter's timeline called Path. While dispatching this goal to the Navigator, the Mission Manager needs to make sure that it gives enough time for the Navigator to deliberate and act. On receiving the goal Go(xLoc, yLoc, depth) in its Path timeline, the Navigator may in turn decide that it needs to dispatch goals Descend(100) at tick 10, taking from 50 to 55 ticks and then achieve Wayp