btainthepossible beliefstatesresultingfromagiven
actionandthesubsequent possible percepts:
RESULTS(b,a) b
o
:b
o UPDATE(PREDICT(b,a),o)and
o POSSIBLE-PERCEPTS(PREDICT(b,a)) . (4.5)
Again,thenondeterminisminthepartiallyobservableproblemcomesfromtheinability
topredict exactly whichpercept willbereceived afteracting; underlying nondeterminism in
the physical environment may contribute to this inability by enlarging the belief state at the
prediction stage, leadingtomorepercepts attheobservation stage.
4.4.3 Solvingpartially observableproblems
The preceding section showed how to derive the RESULTS function for a nondeterministic
belief-state problem fromanunderlying physicalproblem andthe PERCEPT function. Given
144 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
1
3
Suck Right A,Clean B,Dirty B,Clean 5
2 4
7
Figure4.16 Thefirstlevelofthe AND OR searchtreeforaprobleminthelocal-sensing
vacuumworld;Suck isthefirststepofthesolution.
such a formulation, the AND OR search algorithm of Figure 4.11 can be applied directly to
derive a solution. Figure 4.16 shows part of the search tree for the local-sensing vacuum
world,assuminganinitialpercept A,Dirty . Thesolution istheconditional plan Suck,Right,if Bstate 6 then Suckelse .
Notice that, because we supplied a belief-state problem to the AND OR search algorithm, it
returned a conditional plan that tests the belief state rather than the actual state. This isas it
shouldbe: inapartiallyobservableenvironmenttheagentwon tbeabletoexecuteasolution
thatrequires testingtheactualstate.
Asinthecaseofstandard search algorithms applied tosensorless problems, the AND OR search algorithm treats belief states as black boxes, just like any other states. One can
improveonthisbycheckingforpreviouslygeneratedbeliefstatesthataresubsetsorsupersets
of the current state, just as for sensorless problems. One can also derive incremental search
algorithms, analogous to those described for sensorless problems, that provide substantial
speedups overtheblack-box approa