es between language understanding and Iatig Uae gcrier iron. Explain the problems in developing a program which is capable of carrying on a dialog with a group of people. 0 270 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 12.21. Give the processing steps required and corresponding data structures needed for a robot named Rob to formulate instructions for a helper named John to complete a university course add-drop request form. 12.22. Give the conceptual dependency graph for the sentence "Mary drove her car to school" and describe the steps required for a program-to transform the sentence to an internal conceptual dependency structure. 4r) IL) Pattern Recognition One of the most basic and essential characteristics of living things is the ability to recognize and identify objects. Certainly all higher animals depend on this ability for their very survival. Without it they would be unable to function een in a static, unchanging environment. In this chapter we consider the process of computer pattern recognition, it process whereby computer programs are used to recognize various forms of input stimuli such as visual or acoustic (speech) patterns. This material will help to round Out the topic of natural language understanding when speech, rather than test. i the language source. It will also serve as an introduction ts the following chapter where we take up the general problem of computer vision. Although some researchers feel that pattern recognition should no longer he considered a part of Al. we believe many topics from pattern recognition are essential to an understanding and appreciation of important concepts related to natural language understanding. computer vision, and machine learning. Consequently. we have included in this chapter a selected number of those topics believed to he important. 271 272 Pattern Recognition. Chap. 13 13.1 INTRODUCTION Recognition is the process of establishing a close match between some new stimulus and preroiisfy stored stimulus patterns T