(cid:16)Richardthe Lionheart(cid:17) Richard sleftleg
(8.2)
(cid:16)King John(cid:17) John sleftleg.
Strictly speaking, models in first-order logic require total functions, that is, there must be a
TOTALFUNCTIONS
valueforeveryinputtuple. Thus, thecrownmusthavealeftlegandsomusteachoftheleft
legs. Thereisatechnicalsolutiontothisawkwardprobleminvolvinganadditional invisible crown
on head
brother
person person
king
brother
R J left leg left leg
Figure 8.2 A model containing five objects, two binary relations, three unary relations
(indicatedbylabelsontheobjects),andoneunaryfunction,left-leg.
292 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
object that is the left leg of everything that has no left leg, including itself. Fortunately, as
long as one makes no assertions about the left legs of things that have no left legs, these
technicalities areofnoimport.
So far, we have described the elements that populate models for first-order logic. The
other essential part of a model is the link between those elements and the vocabulary of the
logicalsentences, whichweexplainnext.
8.2.2 Symbols andinterpretations
We turn now to the syntax of first-order logic. The impatient reader can obtain a complete
description fromtheformalgrammarin Figure8.3.
Thebasic syntactic elements of first-order logic are the symbols that stand forobjects,
relations, and functions. The symbols, therefore, come in three kinds: constant symbols,
CONSTANTSYMBOL
which stand for objects; predicate symbols, which stand for relations; and function sym-
PREDICATESYMBOL
bols, whichstand forfunctions. Weadopt theconvention thatthese symbols willbeginwith
FUNCTIONSYMBOL
uppercase letters. For example, we might use the constant symbols Richard and John; the
predicate symbols Brother, On Head, Person, King, and Crown; and the function symbol
Left Leg. As with proposition symbols, the choice of names is entirely up to the user. Each
predicate andfunction symbolcomeswithanaritythatfixesthenumberofarguments.
ARITY
Asin propositional lo