t search procedure? 5. The minimax algorithm we have described searches a game tree. But for some games, it might be better to search a graph and to check, each time a position is generated, if it has been generated and evaluated before. Under what circumstances would this be a good idea? Modify the minimax procedure to do this. 6. How would the minimax procedure have to be modified to be used by a program playing a threeor four-person game rather than a two-person one? 7. Inthe context of the search procedure described in Section 12.3, does the ordering of the list of successor positions created by MOVEGEN matter? Why or why not? If it does matter, how much does it matter (i.e., how much effort is reasonable for ordering it)? 8. Implement the alpha-beta search procedure. Use it to play a simple game such as tic-tac-toe. 9. Apply DFID to the water jug problem of Section 2.1. CHAPTER 13 PLANNING He whose undertakings are all devoid of plan and destre for results, and whose actions are burnt by the Sire of Knowledge, him the sages call wise. Srimad Bhagwad Gita (as translated by Swami Swarupananda) Sanskrit text from the epic Mahabharata, a sacred book of the Hindus In order to solve most nontrivial problems, it is necessary to combine some of the basic problem-solving strategies discussed in Chapter 3 with one or more of the knowledge representation mechanisms that have just been presented. It is often also useful to divide the problem that must be solved into smaller pieces and to solve those pieces separately, to the extent that that is possible. In this chapter, we describe several techniques for doing this in order to construct plans for solving hard problems. 13.1 OVERVIEW In Chapter 2, we described the process of problem-solving as a search through a State space in which each point corresponded to a situation that might arise. The search started with an initial situation and performed a sequence of allowable operations until a situation corresponding to a goal 