y the abstract structure of a representation but also a specific indication of what components the representation should contain (such as the primitive ACTs and the dependency relationships). Thus, although CD representations can be thought of as instances of semantic nets, they can be used by more powerful inference mechanisms that exploit specific knowledge about what they contain. And although scripts appear very similar to frames, they are frames in which the slots have been carefully chosen to represent the information that is useful when reasoning about situations. This makes it possible for script manipulation procedures to exploit knowledge about what they are working with in order to solve problems more efficiently. CYC uses both frames and logic (depending on the level at which we view the knowledge) to encode specific types of knowledge and inference aimed at commonsense reasoning. CYC is the most semantic of the systems we have described, since it provides the most built-in knowledge of how to manipulate specific kinds of knowledge structures. It also contains a comprehensive ontology into which new knowledge can be put. In general, syntactic representations are to knowledge representation what the weak methods of Chapter 3 are to problem-solving. They are, in principle, adequate for any problem. But for hard problems, their generality often means that answers cannot be found quickly. Stronger, more semantically oriented approaches make it possible to use knowledge more effectively to guide search. This does not mean that there is no place for weak or syntactic methods. Sometimes they are adequate, and their simplicity makes a formal analysis of programs that use them much more straightforward than a comparable analysis of a program based on semantic methods. But powerful programs depend on powerful knowledge, some of which is typically embedded in their problemsolving procedures and some of which is embedded in their knowledge representation mechanisms.