made of other nondeductive learning techniques like inductive or analogical learning. The notion of operationality used in EBL systems should depend on the purpose of the learning system. As such, it should be treated as a dynamic property. For example, a robot may need to learn the concept of a pencil in order to recognize pencils. In this case, operationality should be interpreted in terms of the structural properties of the pencil. On the other hand, if the purpose of learning the pencil concept relates to design, the robot would be better served with a functional detinitiori of a pencil. Keller (1988) discusses the operationality problem and its application in a program called Meta LEX (a successor to LEX described in Chapter 19). 20.5 SUMMARY We have described two of the more promising approaches to machine learriin, the analogical and explanation-based learning paradigms. These methods, unlike similarity-based methods, are capable of creating new knowledge from a single training example. Both methods offer great potential as autonomous learning methods. Learning by analogy requires that similar, known experiences be available for use in explaining or solving newly encountered experiences. The complete proces, can be described in five steps: (I) a newly encountered situation serves as a reminder pf a known Situation. (2) the thost relevent of the reminded situations are accessed and recalled, (3) the appropriate parts of the recalled analogues are mapped inirn the base domain to the target domain. (4) the mapped situation or solution is extended to fit the current problem, and () the extended solution is tested, generalized, and stored for subsequent recall. A number of analogical research learning systems have been developed. Four representative systems have been described in this chapter. Explanation-based learning is a form of deductive learning .where the learner develops a logical explanation of how a positive training example defines a concept. The explan