tedwithroboticist Hans
Moravec(1988). Itgoeslikethis: Supposeneurophysiology hasdevelopedtothepointwhere
theinput outputbehaviorandconnectivityofalltheneuronsinthehumanbrainareperfectly
understood. Supposefurtherthatwecanbuildmicroscopicelectronicdevicesthatmimicthis
behavior and can be smoothly interfaced to neural tissue. Lastly, suppose that some mirac-
ulous surgical technique can replace individual neurons with the corresponding electronic
devices without interrupting the operation of the brain as a whole. The experiment consists
ofgradually replacing alltheneurons insomeone s headwithelectronic devices.
We are concerned with both the external behavior and the internal experience of the
subject, during and after the operation. By the definition of the experiment, the subject s
external behavior must remain unchanged compared with what would be observed if the
operation were not carried out.3 Now although the presence or absence of consciousness
cannot easily be ascertained by a third party, the subject of the experiment ought at least to
be able to record any changes in his or her own conscious experience. Apparently, there is
a direct clash of intuitions as to what would happen. Moravec, a robotics researcher and
functionalist, isconvinced hisconsciousness wouldremainunaffected. Searle,aphilosopher
andbiological naturalist, isequallyconvinced hisconsciousness wouldvanish:
You find, to your total amazement, that you are indeed losing control of your external
behavior. You find, forexample, thatwhen doctorstest yourvision, youhearthem say Weareholdinguparedobjectinfrontofyou;pleasetelluswhatyousee. Youwant
3 Onecanimagineusinganidentical control subjectwhoisgivenaplacebooperation,forcomparison.
1030 Chapter 26. Philosophical Foundations
tocryout Ican tseeanything. I mgoingtotallyblind. Butyouhearyourvoicesaying
in a way thatis completelyout of yourcontrol, I see a red object in frontof me. ...
your conscious experience slowly shrinks to nothing, while your exter