e end of the last section that pure Bayesian statistics usually leads to intractable systems. But MYCIN works [Buchanan and Shonrtliffe, [984]. Why? Each CF in a MYCIN nile represents the contribution of an individual rule to MY CIN s belief in a hypothesis. In some sense then, it represents a conditional! probability, P(H\E). But recall that in a pure Bayesian system, P(A\E) describes the conditional probability of H given that the only relevant evidence is E. If there is other evidence, joint probabilities need to be considered. This is where MYCIN diverges from a pure Bayesian system, with the result that it is easier to write and more efficient to execute, but witb the corresponding risk, that its behavior will be counterintuitive. In particular, the MYCIN formulas for all three combination scenarios of Fig. 8.1 make the assumption that all rules are independent. The burden of guaranteeing independence (at least to the extent that it matters) is on the rule writer. Each of the combination scenarios is vulnerable when this independence assumption is violated. Let s first consider the scenario in Fig. 8.1(a). Our example rule has three antecedents with a single CF rather than three separate rules; this makes the combination rules unnecessary. The rule writer did this because the three antecedents are not independent. To see how much difference MYCIN s independence assumption can make, suppose for a moment that we had instead had three separate rules and that the CF of each was 0.6. This could happen and still be consistent with the combined CF of 0.7 if the three conditions overlap substantially. If we apply the MYCIN combination formula to the three separate rules, we get 178 Artificial Intelligence SNOT RPO NECA RI LCN MBih,s \s2\ = 0.6 + (0.6 - 0.4) = 0.84 MBAs; A 5) A sy] = 0.84 + (0.6 - 0.16) = 0.936 This is a substantially different result than the true value, as expressed by the expert, of 0.7. Now let s consider what happens when independence assumptions a