s in addition to the actual world in which we live. Thus, unlike traditional logics, where an interpretation of a wif results in an assignment of true or false (in one world only), an interpretation in modal logics would be given for each possible world. Consequently, the wif may be true in some worlds and false in others. Modal logics are derived as extensions of PL and FOPL by adding modal operators and axioms to express the meanings and relations for concepts such as consistency, possibility, necessity, obligation, belief, known truths, and temporal situations, like past, present, and future. The operators take predicates as arguments and are denoted by symbols or letters such as L (it is necessary that). M (it is possible that), and so on. For example. MCOLDER-THAN(denvcr.portland) would be used to represent the statement "it is possible that Denver is colder than Portland." Sec. 5.5 Model and Temporal Logics Modal logics are classified by the type of modality they express. For example, alethic logics are concerned with necessity and possibility, deontic logics with what is obligatory or permissible, epistemic logics with belief and (known) knowledge, and temporal logics with tense modifiers like sometimes, always, what has been, what will be, or what is. In what follows, we shall be primarily concerned with alethic and temporal logics. It is convenient to refer to an agent as the conceptualization of our knowledgebased system (a robot or some other KB system). We may adopt different views regarding the world or environment in which the agent functions. For example. one view may regard an agent as having a set of basic beliefs which Consists of all statements that are derivable from the knowlege base. This was essentially the view taken in P1 and FOPL. Note, however, that the statements we now call beliefs are not the same as known factual knowledge of the previous chapter. They may, in fact be erroneous. In another view, we may treat the agent as having a belie