nd has no extension. A simple example of that is when F is empty, and D consists of the single rule. true : Flies(tweety) Flies(tweety) On the other hand, consider a variation which says it can be assumed that Tweety flies if it is consistent to assume that Tweety flies. F, Vx(Flies(x) Alive(x)) D, Flies(tweety) : Flies(tweety) Flies(tweety) This theory has two extensions. The first one contains Flies(tweety) and Alive(tweety) along with all the tautologies (because they are entailed by anything). In the second one, we only have the tautologies (which are in all extensions anyway). Intuitively, the second one should be preferred and we need to have some notion of minimization. One could for example, discard an extension if a proper subset of it is an extension too. For a more rigorous criterion, the reader is referred to (Reiter, 1980). Finally, it may be observed that the closed world assumption can be characterized by the rule, true :3P 7P where P is any ground atomic formula. 17.1.4 Autoepistemic Logic Making default inferences has to necessarily rely on making assumptions in some form. The goal is to be able to exploit associations between categories, for example birds and the ability to fly, without having to commit to the association being a universal rule. In Default Logic, this is done by means of using default rules that dictate when the consequent (and in turn its consequents) can be believed, contingent to some consistency condition. However, these rules are outside the language (FOL) in which knowledge is expressed. Autoepistemic Logic is designed to bring such rules inside the language, by extending the language with a modal operator (Marek and Truszezynski, 1991). The modal operator B is intended to take care of the is consistent factor in default reasoning. Given a formula a in first order logic, the phrase Ba represents belief in a. Thus, Ba stands for the fact that the agent believes a; Ba stands for the fact that the agent does not believe a; B-a s