e features, taken
together,definevariouscategoriesorequivalenceclassesofstates: thestatesineachcategory
have the same values for all the features. For example, one category contains all two-pawn
vs. one-pawn endgames. Any given category, generally speaking, will contain some states
that lead to wins, some that lead to draws, and some that lead to losses. The evaluation
function cannot knowwhichstatesarewhich,butitcanreturnasinglevaluethatreflectsthe
proportion of states with each outcome. Forexample, suppose our experience suggests that
72 ofthe states encountered inthetwo-pawns vs. one-pawn category lead toawin(utility 1); 20 to a loss (0), and 8 to a draw (1 2). Then a reasonable evaluation for states in
the category is the expected value: (0.72 1) (0.20 0) (0.08 1 2) 0.76. In
EXPECTEDVALUE
principle, the expected value canbe determined foreach category, resulting inan evaluation
function that works for any state. As with terminal states, the evaluation function need not
returnactualexpectedvaluesaslongasthe orderingofthestatesisthesame.
In practice, this kind of analysis requires too many categories and hence too much
experience to estimate all the probabilities of winning. Instead, most evaluation functions
compute separate numerical contributions from each feature and then combine them to find
the total value. Forexample, introductory chess books give an approximate material value
MATERIALVALUE
foreachpiece: eachpawnisworth1,aknightorbishopisworth3,arook5,andthequeen9.
Otherfeatures suchas good pawnstructure and kingsafety mightbeworthhalfapawn,
say. Thesefeaturevaluesarethensimplyaddeduptoobtaintheevaluation oftheposition.
Asecure advantage equivalent toapawngivesasubstantial likelihood ofwinning, and
asecureadvantageequivalenttothreepawnsshouldgivealmostcertainvictory,asillustrated
in Figure5.8(a). Mathematically, thiskindofevaluation functioniscalledaweightedlinear
WEIGHTEDLINEAR functionbecauseitcanbeexpressed as
FUNCTION
(cid:12)n
EVAL(s) w
1
f
1
(s) w
2
f