ctive systems maintain no model of the world and no explicit goal structures, their performance in these tasks is limited. For example, it seems unlikely that a purely reactive system could ever play expert chess. It is possible to provide a reactive system with rudimentary planning capability, but only by explicitly storing whole plans along with the situations that should trigger them. Deliberative planners need not rely on pre-stored plans; they can construct a new plan for each new problem. Nevertheless, inquiry into reactive systems has served to illustrate many of the shortcomings of traditional planners, For one thing, it is vital to interleave planning and plan execution. Planning is important, but so is action. An intelligent system with limited resources must decide when to start thinking, when to stop thinking, and when to act. Also, goals arise naturally when the system interacts with the environment. Some mechanism for suspending plan execution is needed so that the system can tum its attention to high priority goals. Finally, some situations require immediate attention and rapid action. For this reason, some deliberative planners [Mitchel], 1990] compile out reactive subsystems (i.e., sets of situation-action rules) based on their problemsolving experiences. Such systems learn to be reactive over time. 13.8 OTHER PLANNING TECHNIQUES Other planning techniques that we have not discussed include the following: 270 EXERCISES Ob Mtintombecasentatvany 1. Artificial Intelligence Ce ee atte amaemanianaeel Triangle Tables (Fikes et al., 1972; Nilsson, 1980] Provide a way of recording the goals that each operator is expected to satisfy as well as the goals that must be true for it to execute correctly. If something unexpected happens during the execution of a plan, the table provides the information required to patch the plan. Metaplanning [Stefik, 1981a] A technique for reasoning not just about the problem being solved but also about the planning process itself