t plans. Sacerdoti s NOAH solved the keysandboxes problem, aplanning chal-
lenge problem in which the planner knows little about the initial state, using coercion. Ma-
son (1993) argued that sensing often can and should be dispensed with in robotic planning,
and described a sensorless plan that can move a tool into a specific position on a table by a
sequence oftiltingactions, regardless oftheinitialposition.
Goldmanand Boddy(1996)introducedthetermconformantplanning,notingthatsen-
sorless plans are often effective even if the agent has sensors. The first moderately efficient
conformant planner was Smith and Weld s (1998) Conformant Graphplan or CGP. Ferraris
and Giunchiglia(2000)and Rintanen(1999)independently developed SATPLAN-basedcon-
formantplanners. Bonetand Geffner(2000)describeaconformantplannerbasedonheuristic
searchinthespaceofbeliefstates,drawingonideasfirstdevelopedinthe1960sforpartially
observable Markovdecisionprocesses, or POMD Ps(see Chapter17).
Currently, there are three main approaches to conformant planning. The first two use
heuristic search in belief-state space: HSCP (Bertoli et al., 2001a) uses binary decision
diagrams (BD Ds) to represent belief states, whereas Hoffmann and Brafman (2006) adopt
the lazy approach of computing precondition and goal tests on demand using a SAT solver.
The third approach, championed primarily by Jussi Rintanen (2007), formulates the entire
sensorless planning problem as a quantified Boolean formula (QBF) and solves it using a
general-purpose QB Fsolver. Currentconformantplannersarefiveordersofmagnitudefaster
than CGP. The winner of the 2006 conformant-planning track at the International Planning
Competition was T (Palaciosand Geffner, 2007), whichusesheuristic search inbelief-state
0
space while keeping the belief-state representation simple by defining derived literals that
coverconditional effects. Bryceand Kambhampati(2007)discusshowaplanning graphcan
begeneralized togenerategoodheuristics forconformant andcont