of Problem 14.5 and compare the results to those of Problem 14.7. 14.12. This problem relates to the application of template matching using correlation techniques. The objective is to try to match an unknown two-dimensional curve or waveform with a known waveform. Assume that both waveforms are discrete and are represented as arrays of unsigned numbers. Write a program in any suitable language to match the unknown waveform to the known waveform using the correlation function given as c,<x,zi> lix ii ii Zil where X is the unknown pattern vector, Zi is the known pattern vector at position i, < X,Z> denotes the inner product of X and Z, and li Xil is the norm of X. lxii = 14.13 Write a program to apply the Sobel edge detection mask to an array consisting of 256 x 256 pixel gray level values. 14.14 Color and texture are both potentially useful in defining regions. Describe an algorithm that could be used to determine regions that are homogenious in color. 14.15 Referring to Problem 14.14, develop an algorithm that can be used to define regions that are homogeneous in texture. 14.16 Referring to the two previous problems, develop an algorithm that determines regions on the basis of homogeniety in both color and texture. #I1-IJ Expert Systems Architectures This chapter describes the basic architectures of knowledge-based systems with emphasis placed on expert systems. Expert systems are a recent product of artificial intelligence. They began to emerge as university research systems during the early 1970s. They have now become one of the more important innovations of Al since they have been shown to be successful commercial products as well as interesting research tools Expert systems have proven to be effective in a number of problem domains which normally require the kind of intelligence possessed by a human expert. The areas of application are almost endless. Wherever human expertise is needed to solve problems. expert systems are likely candidates for application. Appl