t a course of action, the problem solver creates a plan for the robot. As it executes the plan, the robot uses explanation-based learning to create new reactive modules. Thus, the robot becomes increasingly reactive with experience. Robo-SOAR {Laird er ai., 1989], an extension of the SOAR problem-solving system, is another learning robot architecture. PRS [Georgeff and Lansky, 1987] is a symbolic robot planning system that interleaves planning and execution. In PRS, goals represent robot behaviors, not world states. PRS contains procedures for turning goals into subgoals or iterations thereof. A procedure can be invoked by either the presence of a goal or the presence of some sensory input. Thus, the robot is capable of goal-directed behavior but can also react when the world changes or when plans fail. Goals and procedures are represented symbolically, and a central reasoner uses a stack to oversee the invocation of procedures. SUMMARY we r S24 EME SSRN Ble esi aw wt RY o S RINGER ME MSRP IGT HON ETS ab gate Soot hod SEIBETOS: : Eaerenneenna AAO A RES RTI The field of robotics is often described as the subfield of Al that is concerned with, perceptual and motor tasks. As Fig. 21.1 suggests, the tables can easily be turned, and Al could well be the subfield of robotics that deals with cognition. Indeed, Brady [ 1985] has proposed a definition of robotics with this flavor: Robotics is the intelligent connection of perception to action. Another definition, suggested by Grossman, reads as follows: A robot is anything that is surprisingly animate. The word surprisingly suggests a moving-target definition. It should be noted that the first automatic dishwashing machines were called robots by their designers. But after a while, it became less surprising that a machine could wash dishes, and the term robot fell away. This characterization of robotics is similar to the one we proposed for Al in Chapter 1. There, we characterized Al as the study of problems in which humans c