orable (refuse, refuse) equilibrium. In
thiscase,ignorance isbliss orrather, havingyouropponent believethatyouareignorantis
bliss. Yoursuccess in these repeated games depends onthe other player s perception of you
asabullyorasimpleton, andnotonyouractualcharacteristics.
17.5.3 Sequential games
Inthegeneralcase,agameconsistsofasequenceofturnsthatneednotbeallthesame. Such
gamesarebestrepresentedbyagametree,whichgametheoristscalltheextensiveform. The
EXTENSIVEFORM
tree includes all the same information we saw in Section 5.1: an initial state S , a function
0
PLAYER(s) that tells which player has the move, a function ACTIONS(s) enumerating the
possible actions, a function RESULT(s,a) that defines the transition to a new state, and a
partial function UTILITY(s,p), which is defined only on terminal states, to give the payoff
foreachplayer.
To represent stochastic games, such as backgammon, we add a distinguished player,
chance, that can take random actions. Chance s strategy is part of the definition of the
Section17.5. Decisionswith Multiple Agents: Game Theory 675
game, specified as a probability distribution over actions (the other players get to choose
their own strategy). To represent games with nondeterministic actions, such as billiards, we
breaktheactionintotwopieces: theplayer s actionitself hasadeterministic result, andthen
chance hasaturntoreacttotheaction initsowncapricious way. Torepresent simultaneous
moves,asintheprisoner sdilemmaortwo-finger Morra,weimposeanarbitraryorderonthe
players,butwehavetheoptionofassertingthattheearlierplayer sactionsarenotobservable
to the subsequent players: e.g., Alice must choose refuse or testify first, then Bob chooses,
but Bob does not know what choice Alice made at that time (we can also represent the fact
that the moveis revealed later). However, we assume the players always remember all their
ownprevious actions;thisassumption iscalled perfectrecall.
The key idea of extensive form that sets it apart from the game trees of