ilar relation to A' in this context. For example, to solve a problem with three equations in three unknowns, we try to extend the methods. we know in solving two equations in two unknowns. Analogical inference appears to be based on the use of a combination of three other methods of inference, abductive, deductive and inductive. We depict this form of inference with the following description, where the r above the implication symbol means is related to. Sec. 4.9 Representations Using Rules -i Q Analogical inference, like abductive and inductive is a useful but invalid form of commonsense inference, 4.9 REPRESENTATIONS USING RULES Rules can be considered a subset of predicate logic. They have become a popular representation scheme for expert systems (also called rule-based systems). They were first used in the General Problem Solver system in the early 1970s (Newell and Simon. 1972). - Rules have two component parts: a left-hand side (LHS) referred to as the antc,edent. premise, condition, or situation, and a right-hand side (RHS) known as the consequent, conclusion, action, or response. The LHS is also known as the if part' and the RHS as the then part of the rule Some rules also include an else part. Examples of rules which might be used in expert systems are given below IF: The temperature is greater than 95 degrees C. THEN: Open the relict valve, IF: The patient has a high temperature, and the stain is gram-positive, and the patient has a sore throat. THEN: The organism is streptococcus. IF: The lights do not come on, and the engine does not turn over. THEN: The battery is dead or the cable is loose, IF: A&B&C THEN: D A & B & (C V D) - D The simplest form ot a rule-based production system c insists of three parts a knowledge base (KB) consisting of a set of rules (as few as 50 or as man as several thousand rules may be required in an expert system), a working memory. and a rule interpreter or inference engine. The interpreter inspects the LI-IS of each rule in th