entwants,anddecisiontheoryputsthetwotogether
todescribe whatanagentshoulddo. We can use decision theory to build a system that makes decisions by considering all
possible actions and choosing the one that leads to the best expected outcome. Such a
systemisknownasarationalagent. Utility theory shows that an agent whose preferences between lotteries are consistent
with a set of simple axioms can be described as possessing a utility function; further-
more,theagentselectsactions asifmaximizingitsexpected utility. Multiattribute utility theory deals with utilities that depend on several distinct at-
tributes of states. Stochastic dominance is a particularly useful technique for making
unambiguous decisions, evenwithoutpreciseutilityvaluesforattributes. Decision networks provide a simple formalism for expressing and solving decision
problems. Theyare anatural extension of Bayesian networks, containing decision and
utilitynodesinaddition tochancenodes. Sometimes, solving a problem involves finding more information before making a de-
cision. The value of information is defined as the expected improvement in utility
comparedwithmakingadecisionwithouttheinformation. Expert systems that incorporate utility information have additional capabilities com-
pared with pure inference systems. In addition to being able to make decisions, they
canusethevalueofinformation todecide whichquestions toask, ifany;theycanrec-
ommend contingency plans; and they can calculate the sensitivity of their decisions to
smallchanges inprobability andutilityassessments.
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL AND HISTORICAL NOTES
Thebook L artde Penser,alsoknownasthe Port-Royal Logic(Arnauld,1662)states:
Tojudgewhatonemustdotoobtainagoodoravoidanevil,itisnecessarytoconsider
notonlythegoodandtheevilinitself,butalsotheprobabilitythatithappensordoesnot
happen;andtoviewgeometricallytheproportionthatallthesethingshavetogether.
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 637
Modern texts talk of utility rather than good and evil, but th