exactly three edges, or planes, meet at a vertex. The meanings of the labels are as follows, : The edge is convex when the two faces enclose material within an angle less than 180 . : The edge is concave when the two faces enclose material within an angle greater than 180 . : The edge is a boundary edge with visible face below the edge. : The edge is a boundary edge with visible face above the edge. Observe that the two boundary edges essentially say that the material is on the right-hand side as you traverse along the arrow on the edge, but since either direction can be a label, we have treated them as two distinct labels. Figure 9.12 shows examples of two objects within the scope of this labelling with their labels, and three line drawings that are not of trihedral objects without labels. FIGURE 9.11 A vertex with three edges. FIGURE 9.12 Trihedral objects with their labels on the left, and nontrihedral objects on the right. Observe that the vertex of Figure 9.11 occurs in both with different labels. The two figures in the middle have a vertex with less than or more than three edges, and the cylinder has a curved surface. The bottom figure in the middle too has a surface that is not planar. One can identify four kinds of vertices as seen in the line drawings. They are known as the W, Y, T and L vertices. In the L type of vertex, only two edges are visible, while the others have three edges visible. Figure 9.13 depicts the four kinds of vertices and their representation as lists of edges. Given that an edge can get one of four labels, there are 64 different labels for three edge vertices, and 16 for the L vertex. It turns out that only a small number of label combinations are valid for objects in which vertices are made of exactly three planar faces. We assume that the objects are viewed such that vertices are not formed because of a particular viewpoint. For example, the two collinear line segments of a T vertex are part of the same edge, and not two different edg