(Figure 24.1). Models
oftheseeffectsareessential forbothrecognition andreconstruction.
24.1.1 Imageswithoutlenses: The pinholecamera
Image sensors gather light scattered from objects in a scene and create a two-dimensional
SCENE
image. In the eye, the image is formed on the retina, which consists of two types of cells:
IMAGE
about 100 million rods, which are sensitive to light at a wide range of wavelengths, and 5
930 Chapter 24. Perception
Figure24.1 Imagingdistortsgeometry. Parallel lines appearto meet in the distance, as
intheimageoftherailwaytracksontheleft. Inthecenter,a smallhandblocksoutmostof
a largemoon. Onthe rightisa foreshorteningeffect: thehandistilted awayfromthe eye,
makingitappearshorterthaninthecenterfigure.
million cones. Cones, which are essential for color vision, are of three main types, each of
which is sensitive to a different set of wavelengths. In cameras, the image is formed on an
image plane, which can be a piece of film coated with silver halides or a rectangular grid
of a few million photosensitive pixels, each a complementary metal-oxide semiconductor
PIXEL
(CMOS) or charge-coupled device (CCD). Each photon arriving at the sensor produces an
effect, whose strength depends on the wavelength of the photon. The output of the sensor
is the sum of all effects due to photons observed in some time window, meaning that image
sensorsreportaweightedaverageoftheintensity oflightarrivingatthesensor.
To see a focused image, we must ensure that all the photons from approximately the
samespotinthescenearriveatapproximatelythesamepointintheimageplane. Thesimplest
way to form a focused image is to view stationary objects with a pinhole camera, which
PINHOLECAMERA
consists ofapinhole opening, O,atthefrontofabox, and animageplane atthebackofthe
box (Figure 24.2). Photons from the scene must pass through the pinhole, so if it is small
enough then nearby photons in the scene will be nearby in the image plane, and the image
willbeinfocus.
Thegeometryofscenea