t probably does not seem at all intelligent because the motion is a fixed,
preprogrammed sequence; the robot obviously doesn t know what it s doing inany mean-
ingful sense. Now suppose that a poorly attached door falls off the car just as the robot is
about to apply a spot-weld. The robot quickly replaces its welding actuator with a gripper,
picks up the door, checks it forscratches, reattaches it to the car, sends an email to the floor
supervisor, switches back to the welding actuator, and resumes its work. All of a sudden,
the robot s behavior seems purposive rather than rote; we assume it results not from a vast,
precomputed contingent plan but from an online replanning process which means that the
robot doesneedtoknowwhatit stryingtodo.
EXECUTION Replanningpresupposessomeformofexecutionmonitoringtodeterminetheneedfor
MONITORING
a new plan. One such need arises when a contingent planning agent gets tired of planning
forevery little contingency, such as whether the sky might fall on its head.3 Some branches
ofapartiallyconstructed contingent plancansimplysay Replan;ifsuchabranchisreached
during execution, the agent reverts to planning mode. Aswementioned earlier, the decision
as to how much of the problem to solve in advance and how much to leave to replanning
is one that involves tradeoffs among possible events with different costs and probabilities of
occurring. Nobodywantstohavetheircarbreakdowninthemiddleofthe Saharadesertand
onlythenthinkabouthavingenough water.
2 Ifcyclicsolutionsarerequiredforanondeterministicproblem,AND ORsearchmustbegeneralizedtoaloopy
versionsuchas LAO (Hansenand Zilberstein,2001).
3 In1954,a Mrs.Hodgesof Alabamawashitbymeteoritethatcrashedthroughherroof. In1992, apieceof
the Mbalemeteoritehitasmallboyonthehead;fortunately,itsdescentwasslowedbybananaleaves(Jenniskens
etal.,1994).Andin2009,a Germanboyclaimedtohavebeenhitinthehandbyapea-sizedmeteorite.Noserious
injuriesresultedfromanyoftheseincidents,suggestingthattheneedforpreplanningaga