ht Energy to Numbers The first step in image processing requires a transformation of light energy to numbers, the language of computers. To accomplish this, some form of light sensitive transducer is used such as a vidicon tube or charge-coupled device (CCD). A vidicon tube is the type of sensor typically found in home or industrial video systems. A lens is used to project the image onto a flat surface of the vidicon. The tube surface is coated with a photoconductive material whose resistance is inversely proportional to the light intensity falling on it. An electron gun is used to produce a flying-spot scanner with which to rapidly scan the surface left to right and top to bottom. The scan results in a time varying voltage which is proportional to the scan spot image intensity. The continuously varying output voltage is then fed to an analog-to-digital converter (ADC) where the voltage amplitude is periodically sampled and converted to numbers. A typical ADC unit will produce 30 complete digitized frames consisting of 256 x 256. or 512 x 512 (or more) samples of an image per second. Each sample is a number (or triple of numbers in the case of color systems) ranging from (ito 64 (six bits) or 0 to 255 (eight bits). The image conversion process is depicted in Figure 14.4. A CCD is typical of the class of solid state sensor devices known as charge transfer devices that are now being used in many vision systems. A CCD is a rectangular chip consisting of an array of capacitive photodete Ctor S, each capable of storing an electrostatic charge. The charges are scanned like a clock-driven shift register and converted into a time varying voltage v,hich Is proportional to the incident light intensity on the detectors. This voltage is sampled and converted to integers using an ADC unit as in the case of the vidicon tube. The density of the I Vithcon tube Ti vo v lt a a r g y e in g An c a o i n o v / e d r t t Q er t v I A nu rr m a b y e o rs f the image to numbers. Figure 1