he previous problem. Determine the number of training examples required for the system to converge to the optimal values. 17.5. Describe how a learning automaton could be developed to learn how to play the game of tic-tac-toe optimally. Is this a CIA or a Simple learning automaton system? 17.6. Describe the similarities and differences between learning automata and genetic algorithms. Which learner would be best at finding optimal solutions to nonlinear functions? Give reasons to support your answer. 17.7. Explain the difference of the genetic operators inversion, crossover, and mutation. Which operator do you think is most effective in finding the optimal population in the least time? 17.8. Explain why some editors can be distinguished as "intelligent" 17.9. Read an article on TEIRESIUS and make a list of all the intelligent functions it performs that differ from so called nonintelligent editors. A1 f0 Learning by Induction 18.1 INTRODUCTION Consider playing the following game. I will choose some concept which will remain fixed throughout the game. You will then be given clues to the concept in the form of simpledescriptions. After each clue, you must attempt to guess the concept I have chosen. I will continue with the clues until you are sure you have made the right choice. Clue I. A diamond ring. For your first guess did you choose the concept beautiful? if so you are wrong. Clue 2. Dinner at Maxime's restaurant. What do clues I and 2 have in common? Perhaps clue 3 will be enough to reveal the commonality you need to make a correct choice. Clue 3. A Mercedes-Benz automobile. You must have discovered the concept by now! It is an expensive or luxury item. 381 382 Learning by Induction Chap. 18 The above illustrates the process we use in inductive learning, namely, inductive inference, an invalid, but useful form of inference. In this chapter we continue the study of machine learning, but in a more focused manner. Here, we study a single learning method, learning by