ty Il of Aix-Marseille at Luminy created the language Prolog in 1972. The idea of logic programming took off, mostly in Europe, and variants like Constraint Logic Programming, Parallel Logic Programming (with Parlog), Inductive Logic Programming and (much later) Linear Logic Programming were explored. The ideas were taken up with enthusiasm by the Japanese government, who announced the Fifth Generation Computer Systems (FGCS) project in 1982. The goal was to exploit massive amounts of parallelism and make logical inference the core of computing, measuring performance in LIPS (logical inferences per second), instead of the traditional MIPS (million instructions per second). Along with the Connection Machine also designed to exploit massive parallelism, being built by Daniel Hillis around the same time, and almost in sync with the decline of the Lisp machine the FGCS also faded away after the eighties. The first autonomous robot was built at the Johns Hopkins University in the early sixties. The Hopkin s Beast, as it came to be known, was a simple minded creature, if it had a mind at all. The requirement of being standalone meant that it could not have a built in computer, which in those days would have been the size of a small room. It was battery driven, and its main goal was to keep the batteries charged. It ambled along the corridors of the department, occasionally stopping to plug itself into an electric outlet to feed itself. The first robot that could deliberate and do other stuff was built at the Stanford Research Institute over six years starting in 1966. It was named Shakey, apparently owing to his unsteady posture. A large computer nearby (there were no small ones then) analysed the data sensed by Shakey s TV camera, range finder and bump sensors, accepted commands in natural language typed into its console, and generated and monitored its plans. In 2004, Shakey was inducted into CMU s Robotic Hall of Fame along with Honda s AS MO; Astroboy, the Japanese an