e cannot express directly in the language of propositional logic. To solve this
problem, we need a more expressive language, one in which phrases like for each time t and for each square x,y can be written in a natural way. First-order logic, described in
Chapter 8, is such a language; in first-order logic a wumpus world of any size and duration
canbedescribed inabouttensentences ratherthantenmillionortentrillion.
7.8 SUMMARY
We have introduced knowledge-based agents and have shown how to define a logic with
whichsuchagentscanreasonabouttheworld. Themainpoints areasfollows: Intelligent agentsneedknowledge abouttheworldinordertoreachgooddecisions. Knowledge is contained in agents in the form of sentences in a knowledge represen-
tationlanguagethatarestoredinaknowledgebase. A knowledge-based agent is composed of a knowledge base and an inference mecha-
nism. Itoperates bystoring sentences abouttheworldinits knowledge base, using the
inference mechanism toinfernew sentences, and using these sentences todecide what
actiontotake. A representation language is defined by its syntax, which specifies the structure of
sentences,anditssemantics,whichdefinesthetruthofeachsentenceineachpossible
worldormodel. The relationship of entailment between sentences is crucial to our understanding of
reasoning. A sentence entails another sentence if is true in all worlds where is true. Equivalent definitions include the validity of the sentence and the
unsatisfiabilityofthesentence . Inferenceistheprocessofderivingnewsentencesfromoldones. Soundinferencealgo-
rithmsderiveonlysentencesthatareentailed; completealgorithmsderiveallsentences
thatareentailed. Propositionallogicisasimplelanguageconsistingofpropositionsymbolsandlogical
connectives. Itcanhandlepropositionsthatareknowntrue,knownfalse,orcompletely
unknown. The set of possible models, given a fixed propositional vocabulary, is finite, so en-
tailment can be checked by enumerating models. Efficient model-checking inference
algorithms f