owledge Representation, Knowledge Organization and Manipulation. Perception and Communication, and Knowledge Acquisition. Part I is a general introductory section composed of three chapters. Chapter I presents a general overview of Al in which the importance of the field is discussed, sor,ie important terms are introduced, and a brief summary of early work is presented. This is followed with a chapter which defines knowledge, what it is, and the important roles it plays in Al afid in the development of knowledge-based systems. Chapter 3 offers a concise summary of the most important programming languages used by Al practitioners, with particular emphasis on LISP. Part II covers the important areas of knowledge representation. It consists of five chapters. Chapter 4 presents the important topics of propositional and first order predicate 'logics. An area that has come to play a preeminent role in Al. Chapter 5 discusses problems and solutions for the representation of inconsistent and uncertain knowledge. Chapter 6 continues this theme with a treatment of fuzzy and modal logic. In Chapter 7, structured representation schemes are introduced Preface xv with the notion of associative networks, conceptual graphs, and frames. Chapter 8 completes Part II with an introduction to systems which are based on object oriented represeflta UOfl structures. Part Ill covers topics related to the organization and manipulation of knowledge. This part contains three chapters. Chapter 9 discusses the important problems associated with search and control. Chapter 10 presents a comprehensive treatment of matching techniques, an essential function of most Al programs. This part concludes with Chapter II which covers memory organization and management techniques. Part IV contains three chapters related to perception and Communication. The first chapter. Chapter 12 covers the subfield of natural language processing. Although only a single chapter has been devoted to this subject, the treatme