s ofthealgorithmsinthebookinseveralprogramming languages, a list of over 1000 schools that have used the book, many with links to online course
materialsandsyllabi, anannotated listofover800linkstositesaroundthe Webwithuseful AIcontent, achapter-by-chapter listofsupplementary materialandlinks, instructions onhowtojoinadiscussion groupforthebook,
Preface ix instructions onhowtocontacttheauthorswithquestions orcomments, instructions onhowtoreporterrorsinthebook, inthelikelyeventthatsomeexist,and slidesandothermaterialsforinstructors.
About the cover
The cover depicts the final position from the decisive game 6 of the 1997 match between
chess champion Garry Kasparov and program DEEP BLUE. Kasparov, playing Black, was
forced to resign, making this the first time a computer had beaten a world champion in a
chess match. Kasparov is shown at the top. To his left is the Asimo humanoid robot and
to his right is Thomas Bayes (1702 1761), whose ideas about probability as a measure of
beliefunderliemuchofmodern AItechnology. Belowthatweseea Mars Exploration Rover,
a robot that landed on Mars in 2004 and has been exploring the planet ever since. To the
right is Alan Turing (1912 1954), whose fundamental work defined the fields of computer
science in general and artificial intelligence in particular. At the bottom is Shakey (1966 1972), the first robot to combine perception, world-modeling, planning, and learning. With
Shakey is project leader Charles Rosen (1917 2002). At the bottom right is Aristotle (384
B.C. 322 B.C.),whopioneered thestudyoflogic;hisworkwasstateofthe artuntilthe19th
century(copyofabustby Lysippos). Atthebottomleft,lightlyscreenedbehindtheauthors names, isa planning algorithm by Aristotle from De Motu Animaliumin the original Greek.
Behind the title is a portion of the CPSC Bayesian network for medical diagnosis (Pradhan
etal., 1994). Behind thechess board ispart ofa Bayesian logic model fordetecting nuclear
explosions fromseismicsignals.
Credits: Stan Honda G