talics:
AIisoneofthenewestfieldsofscienceandengineering.Workbeganinearnestjustafter
the Second World War,andthenameitselfwasinventedin1956.Togetherwithmolecular
biology,AIisfrequentlymentionedas field Iwouldmostliketobein byresearchers
inotherdisciplines.
The differences are all reasonable paraphrases, such as frequently mentioned for regularly
cited. Theonly real erroristhe omission ofthe article the, denoted bythe symbol. Thisis
typical accuracy: of the two sentences, one has an error that would not be made by a native
speaker, yetthemeaningisclearlyconveyed.
Historically, there have been three main applications of machine translation. Rough
translation, as provided by free online services, gives the gist of a foreign sentence or
document, but contains errors. Pre-edited translation is used by companies to publish their
documentation and sales materials inmultiple languages. The original source text iswritten
in a constrained language that is easier to translate automatically, and the results are usually
edited by ahuman tocorrect anyerrors. Restricted-source translation worksfully automati-
cally,butonlyonhighlystereotypical language, suchasaweatherreport.
Translationisdifficultbecause,inthefullygeneralcase,itrequiresin-depthunderstand-
ing of the text. This is true even for very simple texts even texts of one word. Consider
theword Open onthedoorofastore.6 Itcommunicates theideathatthestoreisaccepting
customers at the moment. Now consider the same word Open on a large banner outside a
newlyconstructed store. Itmeansthat the store isnowindaily operation, but readers ofthis
signwouldnotfeelmisledifthestoreclosed atnight withoutremoving thebanner. Thetwo
signs use the identical word to convey different meanings. In German the sign on the door
wouldbe Offen whilethebannerwouldread Neu Ero ffnet. 6 Thisexampleisdueto Martin Kay.
908 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
The problem is that different languages categorize the world differently. Forexample,
the 