t random. Present the selected input vector x = (Xj, X, ... , Xq): 3. Find that Kohonen neuron j that has its associated weight vector (W);, W , ;,..,W,j) closest to the input vector x. Closeness could be measured using a suitable distance function, a simple one being given by dist@w, x) = Low, - x)? for i= 1 ton. The Kohonen neuron that has the least distance is said to be the best choice as it resembles the input the most. It is thus referred to as the winning neuron. 4. Modify the weights of all neurons in the neighborhood of radius r of the winning neuron using the equation: wt+lh=w O+ak O-w]. 396 Artificial Intelligence Note that this modification results in the winning neuron and its neighbours to move closer to (learn) the input. Naturally if the learning rate o were unity the neurons would converge on the input. For all other neurons the weights remain unaltered. 5. Update a by reducing it gradually over the iterations. This reduces the rate at which the neurons converge on the input. 6. Reduce the neighbourhood radius r gradually at specified iterations. As can be inferred from the algorithm the modification of weight vectors results in their becoming dense in those portions where the inputs have something in common while the other areas remain rare. For instance, if we had presented the images of faces of a large number of human beings, the network would be able to tell us what is common to all of them viz. two eyes, two pinnas, a nasal elevation, lips, mouth and the like. Information stored in a Kohonen network thus could be used to find whether an alien is (or resembles) a human being. What is thus achieved is a classifier that tends to cluster the input patterns. Since this classification is done autonomously the Kohonen network is said to self organize and learn without supervision. 18.3 APPLICATIONS OF NEURAL NETWORKS Connectionist models can be divided [Touretzky, 1989b] into the following categories based on the complexity of the problem and the net