 2, ..., N . Here, the chessboard is viewed as an N x N array, with the indices (j, k) of each square being the location. The N-queen problem can then be expressed as a collection of N such indices that satisfy certain constraints. Express the constraints in an intensional form. Hint: Given two locations Q, (x1, y1) and Qo (x2, yz), when does Q, attack Qz? . Consider the CSP x, D, C where X x1, Xo, X3 , Dy D2 D3 1, 2, 3 and there are three constraints Ry x1 X2, Ro3 Xo X3 and R34 X3 x1. Draw the matching diagram for the CSP. Simulate the algorithm AC-3 on the matching diagram. What can one now observe about the given CSP? 4. Drop the constraints R3, from the above problem and repeat the process. . Acryptarithmetic problem is an arithmetic problem in which the digits have been replaced by some alphabets of a language. The task is to assign distinct digits to the letters in the encrypted problem such that the arithmetic is correct. Express the following cryptarithmetic problems as CSPs (a) SEND MORE MONEY (b) SIX SEVEN SEVEN TWENTY wo a nN foe (c) EAT THAT APPLE (d) SATURN URANUS PLANETS . Design a program to generate cryptarithmetic problems. Would you begin with a sum and fit numbers to it, or would you start with a word and try and construct the other words meaningfully? Constructing a crossword puzzle that can be posed as a CSP problem. Given an empty crossword grid and sets of words of different lengths, express the crossword problem generator as a CSP problem. What kind of constraints will one add if one wants to generate another problem on the same grid, but with different words? Implement a crossword program that generates crosswords from the words taken from the current issue of a college magazine. . Label the edges in the line diagram in Figure 9.46 with labels from Figure 9.13. Do these drawings represent a trihedral object? FIGURE 9.46 A line diagram of a solid object. 9. 10. Draw line drawings of objects to illustrate all the different allowed combinations