t-Order Logic
original knowledge base is consistent. (After all, if it is not consistent, then the fact that the
queryfollowsfromitisvacuous.) Theset-of-support strategyhastheadditionaladvantageof
generating goal-directed prooftreesthatareofteneasyforhumanstounderstand.
Inputresolution: Inthisstrategy,everyresolutioncombinesoneoftheinputsentences(from
INPUTRESOLUTION
the KB or the query) with some other sentence. The proof in Figure 9.11 on page 348 uses
only input resolutions and has the characteristic shape of a single spine with single sen-
tences combining onto the spine. Clearly, the space of proof trees of this shape is smaller
than the space of all proof graphs. In Horn knowledge bases, Modus Ponens is a kind of
inputresolutionstrategy,becauseitcombinesanimplicationfromtheoriginal KBwithsome
othersentences. Thus,itisnosurprise thatinputresolution iscomplete forknowledge bases
thatarein Hornform,butincomplete inthegeneral case. The linearresolution strategyisa
LINEARRESOLUTION
slightgeneralization thatallows P and Qtoberesolvedtogethereitherif P isintheoriginal
KB orif P isanancestorof Qintheprooftree. Linearresolution iscomplete.
Subsumption: Thesubsumption methodeliminates allsentences thataresubsumed by(that
SUBSUMPTION
is,morespecificthan)anexistingsentenceinthe KB.Forexample,if P(x)isinthe KB,then
thereisnosenseinadding P(A)andevenlesssenseinadding P(A) Q(B). Subsumption
helpskeepthe KBsmallandthushelpskeepthesearchspacesmall.
Practicalusesofresolution theoremprovers
Theorem provers can be applied to the problems involved in the synthesis and verification
SYNTHESIS
ofbothhardwareandsoftware. Thus,theorem-proving research iscarriedoutinthefieldsof
VERIFICATION
hardwaredesign, programminglanguages, andsoftwareengineering not justin AI.
In the case of hardware, the axioms describe the interactions between signals and cir-
cuit elements. (See Section 8.4.2 on page 309 for an example.) Logical reasoners designed
specially for verification have been able to ver