s: x feel POS gloat theme (IPT-ENEMIES x y) MTRANS TO y that goal failure (y) causes: x feel POS envy, theme (IPT-ENEMIES x y) jealous, MTRANS TO y spiteful that goal success (y) causes: x feel NEG Going through the literature on BORIS, one realizes that it is a humongous representation and programming exercise, and Dyer has had to improvise and create knowledge structures in a somewhat ad-hoc manner. It clearly brings out the need for large amounts of knowledge that need to be encoded for a software system to display the kind of breadth, depth and versatility in handling language, and what is commonly known as common-sense knowledge. In the somewhat nebulous classification of Al research into neats vs scruffies' , BORIS probably falls into the latter class. Another project that ventured into representing vast amounts of common-sense knowledge was the project CYC lead by Doug Lenat (1995). Echoing what Charniak observed in his Ms. Malaprop paper, Dyer says in his thesis that if BORIS is to understand why Richard makes the offer of driving him for a change of clothes to Paul, it must know mundane (common sense) facts like what spilling means, how liquids affect clothes, that people don t like to be uncomfortable, where clothes are kept, etc. We will depart from this study of (handcrafted) knowledge structures with the observation that much still needs to be done, if we are to build computer programs that are as knowledgeable as the common man on the street in everyday conversation. 14.6 Inheritance in Taxonomies While constructing taxonomies, one is faced with a trade-off between economy of expression and the universal nature of statements. If we want all our statements to be universally true, we will need to build much larger semantic networks, because universal statements do not allow exceptions. Economy of expression, on the other hand, demands that we make statements that are generally true, but which might admit exceptions. Economy is the motivation for ascribin