thenotionofoptimalitystillmakesenseinthiscontext,ordoesitrequire
modification? Consideralso various possible definitions of the cost ofexecuting anaction
in a belief state; for example, we could use the minimum of the physical costs; or the maxi-
mum; or a cost interval with the lower bound being the minimum cost and the upper bound
beingthemaximum;orjustkeepthesetofallpossiblecostsforthataction. Foreachofthese, explorewhether A (withmodifications ifnecessary) canreturnoptimalsolutions.
4.10 Consider the sensorless version of the erratic vacuum world. Draw the belief-state
spacereachablefromtheinitialbeliefstate 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 ,andexplainwhytheproblem
isunsolvable.
4.11 Wecanturnthenavigation problem in Exercise3.7intoanenvironment asfollows: The percept will be a list of the positions, relative to the agent, of the visible vertices.
Theperceptdoesnotincludethepositionoftherobot! Therobotmustlearnitsownpo-
sitionfromthemap;fornow,youcanassumethateachlocation hasadifferent view. Each action will be a vector describing a straight-line path to follow. If the path is
unobstructed, the action succeeds; otherwise, the robot stops at the point where its
path first intersects an obstacle. If the agent returns a zero motion vector and is at the
goal(which isfixedand known), then theenvironment teleports theagent toarandom
location(notinsideanobstacle). Theperformance measure charges the agent 1point foreach unit ofdistance traversed
andawards1000pointseachtimethegoalisreached.
a. Implement this environment and a problem-solving agent for it. After each teleporta-
tion,theagentwillneedtoformulateanewproblem,whichwillinvolvediscoveringits
currentlocation.
b. Documentyouragent sperformance(byhavingtheagentgeneratesuitablecommentary
asitmovesaround)andreportitsperformance over100episodes.
c. Modify the environment so that 30 of the time the agent ends up at an unintended
destination(chosenrandomlyfromtheothervisibleverticesifany;otherwise,nomove
at all). This is a crude model o