ieval set. The relative diversity of a case c w.r.t. a set R is defined as, RelDiversity(c, R) 1 if R x (1- sim(d;, d,)) m i 1.m ; otherwise The case to be incrementally added to the retrieval set would be one that maximizes a combination of similarity with the query and relative diversity with the retrieval set. One definition of the combined score, called Quality, is, Quality(c, R) osim(d, ouery) (1-a) RelDiversity(c, R) where dguery is the description of the given problem or query and a is a parameter used to control the importance of the two components in the final score. While similarity is a function of the query and a candidate case, relative diversity depends upon cases added to the retrieval set so far. 15.1.3 Forms of CBR The basic process in CBR is that a user describes a problem and the system comes up with a solution. The system does this by retrieving the relevant case from its memory and constructing a solution from the lesson stored in the case. The process of retrieval and reuse is determined by the underlying representation. Three basic schemes have been identified (Lenz et al., 1998), (Bergmann, 2002). 1. Conversational CBR This focuses on the conversation that may take place in a helpdesk situation, in a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system. The questions that an agent may ask the customer assume the greatest importance and find a place in the representation system. 2. Structural CBR Cases are described using a well defined vocabulary of attributes and their values. The attributes may be organized on the relations between them. 3. Textual CBR Very often, organizations keep records of the problems they encounter and solve as jottings in natural language. When cases are represented in free text, some text processing techniques may have to be applied. In the following sections, we explore each of the three avatars of CBR and look at issues of representation, similarity and retrieval. 15.1.4 Conversational CBR Conversational CBR derives its 