puter implementation. One way this can be accomplished is to use a number of rigid pieces (like templates) connected with springs. The pieces can correspond to low level areas such as pixels or even larger area segments (Figure 10.5). To model any restrictions such as the relative positions of body parts (eyes must be above nose, legs below torso, and so on). nonlinear cost functions of piece displacements can be used. The costs can correspond to different spring tensions which reflect the constraints. For example, the Cost of displacing some pieces might be h[ero for no difsplacement, lone Unit for .single increm ent displacements in any one of the permissible directions (left, right, up, down), two units for two position I [ Figure 10.5 Discrete version ot stretchable overlay image. Sec. 10.5 Partial Matching 203 displacements and infinite cost for displacements of more than two increments. Other pieces would be assigned higher costs for Unit and larger position displacements when stronger constraints were applicable. The matching problem here is to find a least cost location and distortion pattern for the reference sheet with regard to the sensed picture. Attempting to compare each component of some reference to each primitive part of a sensed picture is a combinatonally explosive problem. However, in using the template-spring reference image and heuristic methods (based on dynamic programming techniques) to compare against different segments of the sensed picture. the search and match process can be made tractible.. Any matching metric used in the least cost comparison would need to take into account the sum of the distortion costs C, the sum of the costs for reference and sensed component dissimilarities C, and the sum of penalty Costs for missing components C,, Thus, the total cost is given by tl O.8 Finding Match Differences Distortions occurring in representations are not the only reasons for partial matches. For example, in problem solving or analogical inf