isedby Tur-
ingasthe argument from informality ofbehavior. Essentially, this istheclaim thathuman
behavior is fartoo complex to be captured by any simple set of rules and that because com-
puters candonomorethanfollowasetofrules, theycannot generate behavior asintelligent
as that of humans. The inability to capture everything in a set of logical rules is called the
QUALIFICATION qualificationproblemin AI.
PROBLEM
The principal proponent of this view has been the philosopher Hubert Dreyfus, who
hasproduced aseriesofinfluentialcritiques ofartificialintelligence: What Computers Can t
Do (1972), the sequel What Computers Still Can t Do (1992), and, with his brother Stuart,
Mind Over Machine(1986).
The position they criticize came to be called Good Old-Fashioned AI, or GOFAI, a
term coined by philosopher John Haugeland (1985). GOFAI is supposed to claim that all
intelligent behaviorcanbecapturedbyasystemthatreasonslogicallyfromasetoffactsand
rules describing thedomain. Ittherefore corresponds tothe simplest logical agent described
in Chapter7. Dreyfusiscorrectinsayingthatlogicalagentsarevulnerabletothequalification
problem. Aswesawin Chapter13,probabilistic reasoning systemsaremoreappropriate for
open-ended domains. The Dreyfus critique therefore isnot addressed against computers per
se, but rather against one particular way of programming them. It is reasonable to suppose,
however,thatabookcalled What First-Order Logical Rule-Based Systems Without Learning
Can t Domighthavehadlessimpact.
Under Dreyfus sview,humanexpertisedoesincludeknowledgeofsomerules,butonly
asa holistic context or background withinwhichhumans operate. Hegivestheexample
ofappropriate social behavior in giving and receiving gifts: Normally one simply responds
intheappropriate circumstances bygiving anappropriate gift. Oneapparently has adirect
sense ofhow things are done andwhattoexpect. Thesameclaim ismadeinthe context of
chess playing: Amere chess mastermight need tofigure out whatto do, but a grandm