r,neitherthequestionsnortheanswershaveanyrelevance tothedesignorcapabilities of
airplanes andsubmarines; rathertheyareabout theusage of wordsin English. (Thefactthat
ships do swim in Russian only amplifies this point.). The practical possibility of thinking
machines hasbeenwithusforonly50yearsorso,notlongenoughforspeakersof Englishto
settleonameaningfortheword think does itrequire abrain orjust brain-like parts. Alan Turing,inhisfamouspaper Computing Machineryand Intelligence (1950),sug-
gested that instead of asking whether machines can think, we should ask whether machines
canpassabehavioral intelligencetest,whichhascometobecalledthe Turing Test. Thetest
TURINGTEST
is for a program to have a conversation (via online typed messages) with an interrogator for
five minutes. The interrogator then has to guess if the conversation is with a program or a
person; the program passes the test if it fools the interrogator 30 of the time. Turing con-
jectured that,bytheyear2000, acomputerwithastorage of 109 unitscouldbeprogrammed
wellenoughtopassthetest. Hewaswrong programshaveyettofoolasophisticatedjudge.
On the other hand, many people have been fooled when they didn t know they might
be chatting with a computer. The ELIZA program and Internet chatbots such as MGONZ
(Humphrys, 2008) and NATACHATA have fooled their correspondents repeatedly, and the
chatbot CYBERLOVER hasattractedtheattentionoflawenforcementbecauseofitspenchant
fortrickingfellowchattersintodivulging enoughpersonalinformation thattheiridentitycan
be stolen. The Loebner Prize competition, held annually since 1991, is the longest-running
Turing Test-likecontest. Thecompetitions haveledtobettermodelsofhumantypingerrors.
Turing himself examined a wide variety of possible objections to the possibility of in-
telligent machines, including virtually all of those that have been raised in the half-century
sincehispaperappeared. Wewilllookatsomeofthem.
26.1.1 The argument from disability
The argument from disability make