 will force the GA to search that area which has highest fitness values. Crossover If no cross over is performed then the offsprings would be exact copies of the parents with no improvements or variations. Though this may be what one desires at some points of time, crossover ensures that the search progresses, hopefully in the right direction by making new chromosomes that possess characteristics similar to both the parents, Crossover is thus an attempt to create a better or fitter chromosome (solution) from the existing good ones. Once the process of reproduction has done the job of identifying an area of high fitness, crossover enables the movement of the search in that (hopefully) restricted area thereby making headway towards an optimum. While reproduction forces the GA to search areas where fitness is high in an n-dimensional search space, crossover swaps some co-ordinates of the best points so as to move around this localized area of high fitness. In the process it hopes to direct the search to the optimum in this localized area of search. Mutation Like all random searches, there is ample probability that the search areas decided by the Reproduction and Crossover operators are mere neighborhoods of local optima. Searches conducted using just these two operators Genetic Algorithms: Copying Nature s Approaches 471 would invariably hit a local optimum. It is therefore necessary, though occasionally, to divert the search from such areas. Mutation facilitates a sudden change in a gene within a chromosome, generating a solution that is dimensionally far away from or dissimilar to those in the current pool. If the mutated chromosome has better fitness (fortunately) then it may tend to dominate and guide the GA to gradually migrate to that area of search space to which it belongs. This serves to overcome a local optimumi trap. If the mutant has a lesser value of fitness, it will gradually fade out of the pool as Reproduction will ensure that it is not taken up for off