ck and on a rod that runs along the x-axis
from x 10 to x 10. Manipulator B is a square block of side 2 which can slide back and
on a rod that runs along the y-axis from y 10 to y 10. The rods lie outside the plane of
1016 Chapter 25. Robotics
manipulation, sothe rodsdo notinterfere withthe movement oftheblocks. Aconfiguration
isthenapair(cid:16)x,y(cid:17)wherexisthex-coordinateofthecenterofmanipulator Aandwhere yis
they-coordinate ofthecenterofmanipulator B.Drawtheconfiguration space forthisrobot,
indicating thepermittedandexcluded zones.
25.4 Suppose that you are working with the robot in Exercise 25.3 and you are given the
problem of finding a path from the starting configuration of figure 25.31 to the ending con-
figuration. Considerapotentialfunction
1
D(A,Goal)2 D(B,Goal)2 D(A,B)2
where D(A,B)isthedistance betweentheclosest pointsof Aand B.
a. Showthathillclimbinginthispotential fieldwillgetstuckinalocalminimum.
b. Describe a potential field where hill climbing will solve this particular problem. You
neednotworkouttheexact numerical coefficients needed, justthegeneral formofthe
solution. (Hint: Add a term that rewards the hill climber for moving A out of B s
way,eveninacaselikethiswherethisdoesnotreducethedistance from Ato Binthe
abovesense.)
25.5 Consider the robot arm shown in Figure 25.14. Assume that the robot s base element
is60cmlongandthatitsupperarmandforearmareeach40cmlong. Asarguedonpage987,
theinversekinematicsofarobotisoftennotunique. Stateanexplicitclosed-formsolutionof
theinversekinematicsforthisarm. Underwhatexactconditionsisthesolutionunique?
25.6 Implement an algorithm for calculating the Voronoi diagram of an arbitrary 2D en-
vironment, described by an n n Boolean array. Illustrate your algorithm by plotting the
Voronoidiagram for10interesting maps. Whatisthecomplexity ofyouralgorithm?
25.7 This exercise explores the relationship between workspace and configuration space
usingtheexamplesshownin Figure25.32.
a. Consider the robot configuratio