nthis plane. Because ofgravity, typical objects don t floatinairbut aresupported by
thisgroundplane,andwecanexploittheveryspecialgeometryofthisviewingscenario.
Let us work out the projection of objects of different heights and at different loca-
tions on the ground plane. Suppose that the eye, or camera, is at a height h above
c
theground plane. Consider an object of height Y resting on the ground plane, whose
bottom is at (X, h ,Z) and top is at (X, Y h ,Z). The bottom projects to the
c c
imagepoint(f X Z, fh Z)andthetopto(f X Z,f( Y h ) Z). Thebottomsof
c c
nearerobjects(small Z)projecttopointslowerintheimageplane;fartherobjects have
bottomsclosertothehorizon.
24.4.7 Objects and thegeometric structure ofscenes
A typical adult human head is about 9 inches long. This means that for someone who is 43
feetaway,theanglesubtendedbytheheadatthecamerais1degree. Ifweseeapersonwhose
head appears to subtend just half a degree, Bayesian inference suggests we are looking at a
normal person who is 86 feet away, rather than someone with a half-size head. This line of
reasoning suppliesuswithamethodtochecktheresultsofapedestrian detector, aswellasa
methodtoestimatethedistancetoanobject. Forexample,allpedestrians areaboutthesame
height,andtheytendtostandonagroundplane. Ifweknowwherethehorizonisinanimage,
wecanrankpedestrians bydistancetothecamera. Thisworks becauseweknowwheretheir
Section24.4. Reconstructing the3DWorld 955
Image plane
Horizon
Ground plane
C
C B
B
A
A
Figure 24.22 In an image of people standing on a ground plane, the people whose feet
areclosertothehorizonintheimagemustbefartheraway(topdrawing). Thismeansthey
mustlooksmallerintheimage(leftlowerdrawing).Thismeansthatthesizeandlocationof
realpedestriansinanimagedependupononeanotherandonthelocationofthehorizon.To
exploitthis, we need to identify the groundplane, which is done using shape-from-texture
methods.Fromthisinformation,andfromsomelikelypedestrians,wecanrecoverahorizon
asshowninthecenterimage.Ontheright,accept