se. Understanding discourse is a grand challenge umbrella problem for NLP that encapsulates several long and short term problems. One immediate implication of effective discourse processing is that we could design systems that could read a story and answer questions based on it. This would also mean that we would have automated systems that can process Web pages and construct representations of these Web pages that have richer representations of the underlying semantic content. Web search engines, in turn, could exploit these systems to facilitate a more effective comparison of the queries to documents. While discourse processing is hard, we will consider in this chapter one subproblem which is relatively well studied. It is called anaphora resolution; a special case of resolving pronoun references. Let us consider the sentences Ram hit Mohan. He was badly hurt. and contrast this with Ram hit Mohan. He escaped. In the first case, the pronoun he refers to Mohan, and in the second case to Ram. Anaphora resolution in this example refers to the problem of determining which entity is referred to by he . The idea that machines understand natural languages fascinates us Part of Speech Tags: Grammar Rules: S: Sentence S NPV NP NP: Noun Phrase 5 NP N N: Noun NP PRON V: Verb NP Det N JJ: Adjective NP NP that S PRON: Pronoun Pail NP D PRON Det N ai i fascinates ys thar NP NP The idea N- understand 4 N machines natural languages Figure 16.2 A sentence and its structure. In natural language, there are occasions where the intent of the speaker does not have a straightforward correspondence with the words or sentences she uses. For example, imagine a pedestrian calling out Taxill? and the taxi driver shouting back Pedestrian !!! . This is referred to as the problem of pragmatics. In Section 16.2, we will take a closer look at the central problems in NLP identified above. We will focus our attention on some representative approaches aimed at addressing these problems. Two Schools o