nd validation of the knowledge. Knowledge can come from various sources, such as experts, textbooks, reports, technical articles, and the like. To be useful, the knowledge must be accurate, presented at the right level for encoding, complete in the sense that all essential facts and rules are included, free of inconsistencies, and so on. Eliciting facts, heuristics, procedures, and rules from an expert is a slow. tedious process. Experience in building dozens of expert systems and other knowledgebased systems over the past fifteen years has shown this to be the single most time-consuming and ostly part of the building process. This has led to the development of some sophisticated acquisition tools, including a variety of intelligent editors. editors which provide much assistance to the knowledge engineers and system users. The acquisition problem has also stimulated much research in machine learning systems, that is, systems which can learn new knowledge autonomously without the aid of humans. Since knowledge-based systems depend on large quantities of high quality knowledge for their success, it is essential that better methods of acquisition, refinement, and validation be developed. The ultimate goal is to develop techniques that permit systems to learn new knowledge autonomously and continually improve the quality of the knowledge they possess. 2.8 SUMMARY In this chapter we have defined and described the importance of knowledge in building intelligent Al computer systems. A definition of knowledge was given, and the differences between knowledge, belief, and hypotheses were described. The difference between knowledge and data was also clarified. The recognition of the important role that knowledge plays in Al systems has led several countries to commit substantial resources to long-Fange research programs in Al. In particular, the Japanese government has undertaken a cooperative program with several industrial companies to develop intelligent supercomputers with