n which there is intermediate communication between a person and the computer, either to provide additional assistance to the computer or to provide additional information to the user, or both Of course, this distinction is not a strict one describing particular problem domains. As we just showed, mathematical theorem proving could be regarded as either. But for a particular application, one or the other of these types of systems will usually be desired and that decision will be important in the choice of a problemsolving method. 2.3.8 Problem Classification When actual problems are examined from the point of view of all of these questions, it becomes apparent that there are several broad classes into which the problems fall. These classes can each be associated with a generic control strategy that is appropriate for solving the problem. For example, consider the gencric problem of classification. The task here is to examine an input and then decide which of a set of known classes the input is an instance of. Most diagnostic tasks, including medical diagnosis as well as diagnosis of faults in mechanical devices, are examples of classification. Another example of a generic strategy is propose and refine. Many design and planning problems can be attacked with this strategy. Depending on the granularity at which we attempt to classify problems and control strategies, we may come up with different lists of generic tasks and procedures. See Chandrasekaran [1986} and Mc Dermott [1988] for two approaches to constructing such lists. The important thing to remember here, though, since we are about to embark on a discussion of a variety of problem-solving methods, is that there is no one single way of solving all problems. But neither must each new problem be considered totally ab initio, Instead, if we analyze our problems carefully and sort our problem-solving methods by the kinds of problems for which they are suitable, we will be able to bring to each new problem much of 