d feedback that this reinforces the learning of concepts. The book follows a theme of building intelligent systems from scratch. We begin with general purpose search methods and gradually bring out the need for knowledge for problem solving, which first appears in the form of heuristic functions before appearing in the form of explicit symbolic structures designed to address the different issues in reasoning, eventually even in an uncertain world with incomplete information. On the way, we look at alternate approaches like constraint satisfaction and also at specific problems like planning and game playing. As we go along, various sub-areas of artificial intelligence emerge. This book is an attempt to give a comprehensive account of Artificial Intelligence to the reader in one place. would expect the serious reader to complement this material with other literature, much of which has been indicated in the text. The book has a flow of chapters building up a case for and leading up to future chapters. However, an attempt has been made to write each chapter so that it can be read in isolation, and make it possible for an instructor to choose and string together chapters to form a course. Roadmap to the Syllabus The book is not written explicitly for a one-semester course or a one-year course. In fact, it would be difficult to include all the material in a one- or even two-semester course, unless the syllabus is carefully selected from different chapters. We assume each teacher will formulate a course syllabus that fits in well in the curriculum, and encourage the interested student to read up the remaining part. Even the order in which the material is taught is not sacrosanct, though there are some dependencies. For example, it has been suggested by a reviewer or two that the chapter on games can come earlier in the book. In fact, this is the case in the introductory course teach on Al, and it does lead to a programming assignment that can be given early writing game pl