is labeling will impose additional constraints on the other labelings in the figure. 2. Number the vertices of the figure to be analyzed. These numbers will correspond to the order in which the vertices will be visited during the labeling process. To decide on a numbering, do the following: Understanding 283 (a) Start at any vertex on the boundary of the figure. Since boundary lines are known, the vertices involving them are more highly constrained than are interior ones. (b) Move from the vertex along the boundary to an adjacent unnumbered vertex and continue until all boundary vertices have been numbered. (c) Number interior vertices by moving from a numbered vertex to some ad jacent unnumbered one. By always labeling a vertex next to one that has already been labeled, maximum use can be made of the constraints. 3. Visit each vertex V in order and attempt to label it by doing the following: {a) Using the set of possible vertex labelings given in Fig. 14.17, attach to V a list of its possible labelings. (b) See whether some of these labelings can be eliminated on the basis of local constraints. To do this, examine each vertex A that is adjacent to V and that has already been visited. Check to see that for each proposed labeling for V, there is a way to label the line between V and A in such a way that at least one of the labelings listed for A is still possible. Eliminate from V s list any labeling for which this is not the case. (c) Use the set of labelings just attached to V to constrain the labelings at vertices adjacent to V. For each vertex A that was visited in the last step, do the following: (i) Eliminate all labelings of A that are not consistent with at least one labeling of V Gi) If any labelings were eliminated, continue constraint propagation by examining the vertices adjacent to A and checking for consistency with the restricted set of labelings now attached to A. (iii) Continue to propagate until there are no adjacent labeled vertices or until there 