f equations. Raiman converts the above relations into the following, Oc Sign(t) a MyigVi(big) uy Msmali V(small) 0 c -Close(V) Close(V,(big)) 0c Close(V) Close(V,(small)) 0C M ait Mpig x Small The law of conservation of momentum, pigV (big) MsmayVsmall) MpjgVAbig) MsmayVAsmall) and the conservation of energy, MpigV Abig) MsmanV2 (small) MpigV7 big) MsmanV2Asmall) The above two yield, Vi(big) Vz (big) Vismall) V; (small) Applying a set of inferences too detailed to describe here, Raiman arrives at, V; (big) S Close(V) and V (small) S Close(V V V) That is, the larger body continues to move approximately with the same velocity V, while the small body bounces back and travels at approximately three times that velocity. The interested reader should verify that this is indeed the case when Mgmaj is negligible compared to Mpig- Raiman s reasoning system, Estimate, also shows that if the two masses are Close and the velocities are Close then the two bodies rebound with the same velocities. If the masses are Close and the second body is at rest, or having a comparatively negligible velocity, then the first mass transfers the velocity (or momentum) to the second mass. 17.2.3 Confluences The orders of magnitude reasoning involves variables, some of which may be negligible as compared to others. Even when such information is not available, interesting inferences can be made by defining relations between different variables that are part of the same physical system. These relations are abstractions of the laws of physics that holds for the system. Confluences are linear equations over variables that take values from a quantity space. In the following discussion, we use the notation X for a variable and the notation OX for its derivative. A confluence is a summation of such variables that add to a constant. For example, if H is the height of a balloon in the atmosphere, and P is the atmospheric pressure it is subjected to, we could write the confluence, OH OP 0 Keeping in mind th