 3.16 considers the problem of building railway tracks under the assumption
that pieces fit exactly with no slack. Now consider the real problem, in which pieces don t
fitexactly butallow forupto10degrees ofrotation toeither sideofthe proper alignment.
Explainhowtoformulatetheproblem soitcouldbesolvedbysimulatedannealing.
4.3 In this exercise, we explore the use of local search methods to solve TS Ps of the type
definedin Exercise3.30.
a. Implementandtestahill-climbingmethodtosolve TS Ps. Comparetheresultswithop- timalsolutions obtained fromthe A algorithm withthe MS Theuristic(Exercise3.30).
b. Repeat part (a) using a genetic algorithm instead of hill climbing. You may want to
consult Larran aga etal.(1999)forsomesuggestions forrepresentations.
4.4 Generatealargenumberof8-puzzleand8-queensinstancesandsolvethem(wherepos-
sible) by hill climbing (steepest-ascent and first-choice variants), hill climbing with random
restart, andsimulated annealing. Measurethesearchcostandpercentage ofsolvedproblems
andgraphtheseagainsttheoptimalsolution cost. Commentonyourresults.
4.5 The AND-OR-GRAPH-SEARCH algorithm in Figure 4.11 checks for repeated states
only on the path from the root to the current state. Suppose that, in addition, the algorithm
weretostore every visited state and check against that list. (See BREADTH-FIRST-SEARCH
in Figure3.11foranexample.) Determinetheinformation thatshouldbestoredandhowthe
algorithmshouldusethatinformationwhenarepeatedstate isfound. (Hint: Youwillneedto
distinguish atleastbetweenstatesforwhichasuccessfulsubplanwasconstructed previously
and states for which no subplan could be found.) Explain how to use labels, as defined in
Section4.3.3,toavoidhaving multiplecopiesofsubplans.
4.6 Explainpreciselyhowtomodifythe AND-OR-GRAPH-SEARCH algorithm togenerate
acyclicplanifnoacyclicplanexists. Youwillneedtodealwiththreeissues: labelingtheplan
stepssothatacyclicplancanpointbacktoanearlierpartoftheplan,modifying OR-SEARCH
so that it continues to look for