bridge. It might find this fact useful: INSIDE(5;, 59) \ FREE(s,} A FULL(53, 1) > FULL(5,, 1) Common Sense 417 It is straightforward to show that if the robot is submerged, it will be wet all over. Predicting that the robot will become submerged in the first place requires some envisionment. We need a rule that says one dense solid object must be supported by another solid object, or else it will tend to move downward. One property of liquids is that they do not support dense solid objects. We also need general rules describing how liquids themselves behave over time. Consider all the possible forms that a liquid may take at a given instant. Hayes [1985] distinguishes between lazy, still liquids, lazy, moving liquids and energetic, moving liquids. Energetic, moving liquids are liquids being propelled by some active force, for example, oil being pumped through a pipeline. Lazy liquids are liquids in their natural state. Sometimes they are moving, as in river water and rain, and sometimes they are still. Liquids in any of these forms can also be either bulk or divided. Most of the time we deal with bulk liquid, but sometimes we encounter mist, dew, or rain. Finally, liquids can be either unsupported, on a surface, or in a container. What happens to these types ot liquids? Figure 19.5 shows five envisionments for lazy, bulk liquids. A containment event can become a falling event if the container tips. The falling event becomes a wetting event and then a spreading one. Depending on where the spreading takes place, further falling or flowing events may ensue. When all the liquid has left the container, the spreading will stop, and sometime afterward, a drying event will begin. Other materials behave differently. Solids can be rigid or flexible. A string can be used to pull an object but not to push it. Solids can also be particulate (like sand), in which case they share many of the same behaviors as liquids. Gases are also similar to liquids. Also, some solids soak up li