ogies. Tom Mitchell has predicted that machines would be able to read like humans in the next decade. '9 The essence of speedy intelligent action is knowledge. It is knowledge that enables an expert physician to diagnose a disease and prescribe an action; it is knowledge that enables a chess grandmaster to glance at a chessboard and pick a winning move; and it is knowledge that enables a scientist to capitalize on a serendipitous event to make a new discovery. And we, and other intelligent agents, acquire knowledge via a process of learning. Humans spend a considerable fraction of their lives learning, whether it is in the lap of their parents listening to stories, in school being taught by a teacher, reading books, or by direct experience. Eventually, everything is internalized into a comprehensive knowledge based system. Will we develop machines that can accelerate this process of learning? Will we be able to capitalize on the fact that everything that one machine knows can be instantly copied onto another machine? Will swarms of learning machines find a way to fuse and integrate all they learn and know into one machine that can play better chess than us, write gripping stories for us, and compose better music than us? The term Machine Learning conjures up visions of a super smart machine that would look around it and develop a comprehension of the world around it. We are not there yet. But we do have taken the first baby steps. ) J XQ Exercises 1. What is the key assumption in the Naive Bayes classifier? 2. Design and implement a Bayesian Spam Filter that classifies email messages as either spam (unwanted) or ham (useful), i.e. y; spam, ham for the following four scenarios (courtesy Deepak V.). (a) Maximum Likelihood Estimation assuming P(x y) 7. Multinomial( 4, Ng, ..., Nk, N), where k is the size of the vocabulary, ny, is the number of times word w appears in the document d and N 2; n;. (b) Maximum Likelihood Estimation assuming P(x y) . Bernoulli(i, p), where 