ceptualization. If Adriana s intention was to give the pencil to Ayumu then the above would be the instrumental act for an ATRANS action. If on the other hand, the pencil was thrown with the objective of hitting Ayumu then the above would be related causally to a PROPEL act in which the pencil comes into contact and applies force to Ayumu. One may need to clarify on instruments as well. Linguistic instruments like forks, spoons, hammers, shovels, and mobile phones are often objects of conceptual actions. For example, if we said that Abasi ate the ice cream with a spooRadtheniteerqpoon becomes an object of a PROPEL and PTRANS act which are instrumental to INGESTing. Likewise, if we had said habirhiders, filed the cockroaches with insecticide then while the insecticide is linguistically an instrument of the killing act, conceptually it is only an object of an action that is causally related to the state change event of the cockroaches being killed. 13.7 Conceptual Analysis If knowledge representation and reasoning is the cognitive activity that happens in support of an agent acting intelligently, how does an agent process language? Or for that matter information being acquired from external sources in any other form. Obviously, the goal would be to transform the information into its internal representation in order to be able to reason with it. FIGURE 13.16 Software agents have to make sense of information coming via the keyboard or some other medium. Consider the design of a game playing agent (see Figure 13.16). The agent has some internal representation of the world along with representation of the moves one can make. The opponent makes moves via the keyboard or a joystick or a mouse, or even a process if the opponent is a program. The task of the agent is to decipher the signals by mapping them to the representation of states and moves. Or consider a futuristic scenario in which a spy is being debriefed by a computer program. The spy narrates her story and the pro