t s score goes up by some large amount (say 1000). The agent can move to neighbouring squares horizontally and vertically. This can be done by a combination of move and turn. In addition, the agent has a grab action for picking up gold. A shoot action can be done to shoot an arrow in some direction. Moving costs some points (say 2) as does shooting (say 50). The agent can also perceive some features that reveal what is in the neighbourhood. Stench indicates the presence of a Wumpus that would kill the agent if it entered the square. Breeze indicates that the agent is next to a pit in which it could fall and die. Glitter indicates the presence of gold in a neighbouring square. Bump means the agent walked into a wall. Scream indicates that the Wumpus has been killed. None, one, or more of these percepts may be perceived in a square. Model the above game in PDDL. 15. Devise a set of actions for the cooking domain. Illustrate how a recipe for making an omelette can be expressed as a plan. Are there any actions that can be done in parallel? 16. Having to plan a trip, say from Chennai to Jaipur, the first thing one might do is to find suitable train and or flight combinations between the two cities, and then fill in all the other actions. What kind of planning algorithms will allow one to do so? N wo a a fo) N fo The problem description is the initial state description and the goal description. Each is a set of instantiated predicates defined in the domain description. The name was probably an acronym for Stanford Research Institute Problem Solver, but has now itself entered the vocabulary of the planning community. Hanks and McDermott described it with a now well known and more dramatic Yale Shooting Problem, in which one has to determine whether a gun loaded earlier is still loaded when a shot is fired at a later time instance. (see for example http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Yale shooting problem). If one were allowed to have negative facts in the goal condition, for examp