 Task node and node/ Send to piuhop Scrape Sand P,o FIgure 9.1 Example of an and-or graph. representation unless noted otherwise. And-Or graph searches are covered in Section 9.6. Graph and Search Trees Search can be characterized as finding a path through a graph or tree structure. This requires moving from nude to node after successively expanding and generating connected-nodes. Node generation is accomplished by computing the identification or representation Code of children nodes from a parent node. Once this is done, a child is said to be generated and the parent is said to be explored. The process of generating all of the children of a parent is also known as expanding the node. A search procedure is a strategy for selecting the order in which nodes are generated and a given path selected. Search problems may be classified by the information used to carry out a given strategy. In blind or uninformed search, no preference is given to the order of successor node generation and selection. The path selected is blindly or mechanically followed. No information is used to determine the preference of one child over -nother. lii informed or directed search, some information about the problem space is used to compute a preference among the children for exploration and expansion. Before proceeding with a comparison of strategies, we consider next some typical search problems. 9.3 EXAMPLES OF SEARCH PROBLEMS In this section we describe three typical problems which illustate the concepts defined above and which are used in subsequent sections to portray different search techniques. The problems considered are the often-used examples, the eight puzzle and the traveling salesman problem. The Eight Puzzle The eight puzzle consists of a 3-by-3 square frame which holds eight movable square tiles which arc numbered from I to 8. One square is empty, permitting tiles Sec. 9.3 Examples of Search Problems 171 3 8 I 2 3 825 8 4 47 785 Aitait Agoet configurato confiratio Figure92 The 