t ways this state can end, leading to a new state as shown in Figure 17.3. This could happen when the ball hits the ceiling resulting in state 1, or its vertical velocity becomes zero resulting in state 2, or it hits a wall as in state 3. These states are represented by the small black circles. The three different arcs themselves represent the identical state, in which the vertical and horizontal velocities are positive, horizontal acceleration is zero, and vertical acceleration is negative. If one started only with the qualitative information that the ball was moving upwards and sideways under the influence of gravity then one will not be able to predict which of these succeeding states occur. For that, we would need the quantitative information and perhaps a quantitative model of air resistance as well (imagine doing the same underwater in a swimming pool). However, a major advantage of using a qualitative model is that even with this limited information, one can chart out all the possibilities that can possibly occur. This is the kind of reasoning an engineer or a scientist might do before reaching out for her calculator. For example, one can safely say that the ball will not start moving leftwards and hit the left wall. When the ball ceases to be in the moving-up-and-right state, it makes a transition to a different state. Ignoring the instantaneous states 1, 2 and 3 in the above figure, the next possible states succeeding 2 and 3 are shown in solid lines in Figure 17.4. Figure 17.3 In this figure, each of the lines represents a qualitative state the ball is moving upwards and to the right. A transition can occur either to the state labelled 1 when the ball hits the ceiling, or to state 2 when it stops moving upwards due to gravity, or state 3 when it hits a wall. As one can see from the figure, after the transition via states 1 and 2, the ball will be in a qualitative state in which it is moving to the right and down. The four solid trajectories in the figure a