 purely random walk that is, moving to a successor chosen uniformly
at random from the set of successors is complete but extremely inefficient. Therefore, it
seemsreasonabletotrytocombinehillclimbingwitharandomwalkinsomewaythatyields
SIMULATED bothefficiencyandcompleteness. Simulatedannealingissuchanalgorithm. Inmetallurgy,
ANNEALING
annealing is the process used to temper or harden metals and glass by heating them to a
hightemperature andthengradually coolingthem,thusallowingthematerialtoreachalow-
energy crystalline state. To explain simulated annealing, we switch our point of view from
hill climbing to gradient descent (i.e., minimizing cost) and imagine the task of getting a
GRADIENTDESCENT
ping-pong ball into thedeepest crevice inabumpy surface. Ifwejustlet theball roll, itwill
come to rest at a local minimum. If weshake the surface, wecan bounce the ball out of the
local minimum. The trick is to shake just hard enough to bounce the ball out of local min-
ima but not hard enough to dislodge it from the global minimum. The simulated-annealing
solution istostartbyshaking hard(i.e.,atahightemperature) andthengradually reduce the
intensity oftheshaking (i.e.,lowerthetemperature).
Theinnermostloopofthesimulated-annealing algorithm(Figure4.5)isquitesimilarto
hillclimbing. Insteadofpickingthebestmove,however,itpicksarandommove. Ifthemove
improvesthesituation,itisalwaysaccepted. Otherwise,thealgorithmacceptsthemovewith
some probability less than 1. The probability decreases exponentially with the badness of
the move the amount E by which the evaluation is worsened. The probability also de-
creasesasthe temperature T goesdown: bad movesaremorelikelytobeallowedatthe
startwhen T ishigh,andtheybecomemoreunlikely as T decreases. Iftheschedule lowers
T slowlyenough, thealgorithm willfindaglobaloptimumwithprobability approaching 1.
Simulated annealing was first used extensively to solve VLSI layout problems in the
early1980s. Ithasbeenapplied widelytofactoryscheduling andothe