world changing while it is planning or executing a plan. The fact that actions are instantaneous implies that there is no notion of time, but only of sequencing of actions. The effects of actions are deterministic, and therefore the agent knows what the world will be like after each action. Each of these constraints can be relaxed to define richer planning domains, but in which planning is a computationally harder task. The algorithms being developed in the planning community are all based on explicit representations of actions in a domain. This is a little different from our earlier view of search which was more abstract and tended to assume a move generating function. Representing actions explicitly allows us to explore richer domains, for example when actions have durations. It also allows us to investigate approaches to planning different from graph search. In classical planning, reasoning about actions involves simulation of changes in the mental model that the agent has. The agent peers into the future to examine the different possibilities and select the desirable course of action. This is called projection into the future. The planner searches through the possible combination of actions to find the p an that will work. An alternative approach is to exploit the agent s experience, looking into the past. If the agent has memory, it can reuse a plan that worked earlier, or reuse the problem solving experience to find a solution. The agent can fish out (retrieve) a plan or planning cues from its memory. Such an approach is known as memory based planning. It involves representation and reasoning over the events in the past. Human beings typically use both methods. If a problem is familiar then a known solution is used from memory. The idea is to not reinvent the wheel every time. However, when a problem is a new one, the first principles projection based methods have to be used. An efficient agent, for example an intelligent human being, will keep learning from e