types may be treated in two ways. The simpler approach is to rely on equality. That is, 7 TM Unosderd4 V,, V;) 1 iff V,, Vi, 0 otherwise. However, in some domains, the symbols may stand for some things that may have some inherent similarity. This is like saying that the symbols have some meaning (semantics) and similarity can be computed at the meaning level. Observe that this is what we said about words in natural language too. This is not surprising that our natural languages are essentially symbol systems, where words symbolize something. One can allow a user to define similarity between unordered symbol types. For example, if the attribute Drinks as part of a case structure for planning children s parties may have the values as follows, Vprinks Coke, Pepsi, Lemonade, Orange juice then a user could construct a similarity table explicitly, for instance, as follows, Table 15.1 A similarity table for drinks SiMprinks Coke Pepsi Lemonade Orange juice Coke 1 0.9 0.4 0.2 Pepsi 0.9 1 0.4 0.2 Lemonade 0.4 0.4 1 0.8 Orange juice 0.2 0.2 0.8 1 Other symbolic attributes, like colour, may have an underlying physical basis. Colours can be described by the frequency of light, but that would apply only to pure colours. Instead, one of the ways we describe a colour is as a point in the RGB space which is formed by taking three colours as primitives, and others can be described as combinations of the three primary colours. We can then treat the three RGB values as numeric attributes and compute their local similarities, and combine the three local similarities using some aggregation function. Taxonomic Symbols Taxonomies are partial orders in which one symbol is a hyponym of another. For example the symbol (or word) car is a hyponym for the symbol vehicle , and chair is a hyponym of furniture . The most commonly known taxonomies are in the animal kingdom, where life forms are categorized into species and families. The tree structure of a taxonomy gives a basis for defining simila