 intelligence possessed by a human expert. The areas of application are almost endless. Wherever human expertise is needed to solve problems. expert systems are likely candidates for application. Application domains include law, chemistry, biology, engineering, manufacturing, aerospace, military operations, finance, banking, meteorology, geology. geophysics. and more. The list goes on and on. In this chapter we explore expert system architectures and related building tools. We also look at a few of the more important application areas as well. The material is intended to acquaint the reader with the basic concepts underlying expert systems and to provide enough of the fundamentals needed to build basic systems or pursue further studies and conduct research in the area. 326 Sec. 15.1 Introduction 37 15.1 INTRODUCTION An expert system is a set of programs that manipulate encoded knowledge to solve problems in a specialized domain that normally requires human expertise. An expert system's knowledge is obtained from expert sources and coded in a form suitable for the system to use in its inference or reasoning processes. The expert knowledge must be obtained from specialists or other sources of expertise, such as texts, journal articles, and data bases. This type of knowledge usually requires much training and experience in some specialized field such as medicine, geology, system configuration, or engineering design. Once a sufficient body of expert knowledge has been acquired, it must be encoded in some form, loaded into a knowledge base, then tested, and refined continually throughout the life of the system. Characteristic Features of Expert Systems Expert s'ystems differ from conventional computer systems in several important ways. I. Expert systems use knowledge rather than data to control the solution process. "In the knowledge lies the power" is a theme repeatedly followed and supported throughout this book. Much of the knowledge used is heuristic in nature rather