L' and L' L. For example, Asian is the LCA of Red-Curry and Rajma-Chawal . Then, a query node Q is more similar to a node N; than to node N, iff the LCA of Q and N;is a descendant of the LCA of Q and N,. That is, sim(Q, Nj) sim(Q, Nx) Q, N Q, Ny While this tells us that which node is Q more similar to, it does not give us a numeric value for similarity, which is what we need if there is a taxonomic attribute in the case and the query. One measure of similarity in a taxonomy could be derived by treating the length d(N;,N,) of the shortest path between two nodes as a measure of distance between the two nodes. Then, similarity between the two nodes N; and N, is, sim(Nj, Nx) 1 (Nj, Ny) D where D is the length of the maximum path in the taxonomy. However, this similarity measure has a problem that it is not sensitive to where the two nodes lie in the taxonomy. It assigns the same similarity to the pairs (KhaoPad, Red-Curry), (Asian, European), and (Dinner, British). A related measure known as Ich defines it as follows (Leacock and Chodorow, 1998), siMicn(Nj, Nx) -log(a(Nj, Ny) 2D) An alternative definition of similarity takes into account where the two nodes lie. In particular, if there are two siblings deep in the taxonomy, they are more similar as compared to two siblings higher up. Thus, the similarity of the pair (Khao-Pad, Red-Curry) should be more than the similarity of the pair (Asian, European) even though both are pairs of siblings. One method called wup due to (Wu and Palmer, 1994) does this and computes the similarity between Nj; and N, as follows, siMyup(Nj, Nx) 2a( Nj, Ny , root) (a(Nj, root) d(Nx, root)) where root is the root node in the taxonomy and Nj, N, is the lowest common ancestor of N; and Nx. The seasoned gastronome amongst the readers would comment that the taxonomy above does not represent her notion of similarity of food items. For example, the French crepe is quite similar to the Indian dosa, also similar to the Ethiopian injera, whereas they a