per can provide explanations and give general assistance to the user during a consultation session. A system editor provides a number of helpful facilities to build, store, and print a knowledge base. Parameter and property values, textual prompts, help messages, and debug traces are all provided through the editor. In addition, user defined functions written in LISP may be provided by a developer as part of a rule's condition, and/or actions. The system also provides access to other sources of infonnatior, such as d Base II and d Base III. An optional graphics package is also available at extra cost. Electrical appliance microwave I IIro In I Food Toasterr cooker I blender I Mechanical Elec Itrical I Figure 15.12 Hierarchical frame Isubsystem structure in PC Plus. 'fr 352 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 Radian Rulemaster The Rulemaster system developed in the early 1980s by the Radian Corporation was written in C language to run on a variety of miniand microcomputer systems. Rulemaster is a rule-based building tool which consists of two main components: Radial, a procedural, block structured language for expressing decision rules related to a finite state machine, and Rulemaker, a knowledge acquisition system which induces decision trees from examples supplied by an expert. A program in Rulemaster consists of a collection of related modules which interact to affect changes of state. The modules may contain executable procedures, advice, or data. The building system is illustrated in Figure 15.13. Rulemaster's knowledge can be based on partial certainty using fuzzy logic or heuristic methods defined by the developer. Users can define their own data types or abstract types much the same as in Pascal. An explanation facility is provided to explain its chain of reasoning. Programs in other languages can also be called from Rulemaster. One of the unique features of Rutemaster is the Rulemaker component which has the ability to induce rules from examples. Experts a