ovide classification for a small area right in front of the robot.
When this area is found to be flat in the laser range scan, it is used as a positive training
examplefortheconcept drivable surface. Amixture-of-Gaussians technique similartothe
EM algorithm discussed in Chapter 20 is then trained to recognize the specific color and
texture coefficients of the small sample patch. The images in Figure 25.13 are the result of
applying thisclassifiertothefullimage.
986 Chapter 25. Robotics
Methods that make robots collect theirowntraining data (with labels!) are called self-
SELF-SUPERVISED supervised. Inthisinstance,therobotusesmachinelearningtoleverageashort-rangesensor
LEARNING
that works wellforterrain classification into asensor that cansee much farther. Thatallows
therobot todrive faster, slowingdownonly whenthesensor modelsaysthere isachange in
theterrainthatneedstobeexaminedmorecarefully bytheshort-range sensors.
25.4 PLANNING TO MOVE
Allof arobot s deliberations ultimately comedown to deciding how tomoveeffectors. The
POINT-TO-POINT point-to-pointmotionproblemistodelivertherobotoritsendeffectortoadesignatedtarget
MOTION
location. A greater challenge is the compliant motion problem, in which a robot moves
COMPLIANTMOTION
whilebeinginphysicalcontact withanobstacle. Anexampleofcompliantmotionisarobot
manipulatorthatscrewsinalightbulb,orarobotthatpushesaboxacrossatabletop.
We begin by finding a suitable representation in which motion-planning problems can
bedescribed andsolved. Itturnsoutthatthe configuration space thespaceofrobotstates
defined by location, orientation, and joint angles is abetterplace towork than the original
3Dspace. Thepathplanningproblem istofindapathfromone configuration toanotherin
PATHPLANNING
configurationspace. Wehavealreadyencounteredvariousversionsofthepath-planningprob-
lem throughout this book; the complication added by robotics is that path planning involves
continuousspaces. Therearetwomainapproaches: celldecompositionandskeletonizat