is approach to intelligence is embodied in
REPRESENTATION
KNOWLEDGE-BASED knowledge-basedagents.
AGENTS
Theproblem-solvingagentsof Chapters3and4knowthings,butonlyinaverylimited,
inflexiblesense. Forexample, thetransition modelforthe8-puzzle knowledge ofwhatthe
actions do is hidden inside the domain-specific code of the RESULT function. It can be
used to predict the outcome of actions but not to deduce that two tiles cannot occupy the
samespaceorthatstateswithoddparitycannotbereachedfromstateswithevenparity. The
atomic representations used by problem-solving agents are also very limiting. In a partially
observable environment, an agent s only choice for representing what it knows about the
currentstateistolistallpossibleconcretestates ahopelessprospectinlargeenvironments.
Chapter 6 introduced the idea of representing states as assignments of values to vari-
ables; this is a step in the right direction, enabling some parts of the agent to work in a
domain-independent way and allowing for more efficient algorithms. In this chapter and
those that follow, we take this step to its logical conclusion, so to speak we develop logic
LOGIC
as a general class of representations to support knowledge-based agents. Such agents can
combineandrecombineinformationtosuitmyriadpurposes. Often,thisprocesscanbequite
far removed from the needs of the moment as when a mathematician proves a theorem or
anastronomercalculatestheearth slifeexpectancy. Knowledge-basedagentscanacceptnew
tasksintheformofexplicitlydescribedgoals;theycanachievecompetencequicklybybeing
toldorlearning newknowledge about theenvironment; andtheycanadapttochanges inthe
environment byupdating therelevantknowledge.
We begin in Section 7.1 with the overall agent design. Section 7.2 introduces a sim-
plenewenvironment, thewumpusworld, andillustrates theoperation ofaknowledge-based
agentwithoutgoingintoanytechnicaldetail. Thenweexplainthegeneralprinciplesoflogic
234
Section7.1. Knowledge-Based Agents 235
in Section 7.3 and 