les like birds fly , Bird(tweety) : Flies(tweety) Flies(tweety) Assume the knowledge base contains only one sentence Bird(tweety). Here we can see that Bird(tweety) is already in the extension (the given knowledge base), Flies(tweety) is not in the extension, and hence Flies(tweety) can be added to the extension. Adding some sentences to the extension may preclude the addition of other sentences, which could have been otherwise added. This suggests that a default theory may have more than one extension, indicating that the default theory is ambiguous. Consider the relations depicted in Figure 14.21 on the left. They may be expressed as follows (replacing CanFly with Flies). F, Penguin(peppy), Vx(Penguin(x) Bird(x)) Vx(Penguin(x) AquaticBird(x)) D, Bird(peppy) : Flies(peppy) Flies(peppy) , AquaticBird(peppy) : Flies(peppy) Flies(peppy) There are two extensions for the above default theory , E, Penguin(peppy), Bird(peppy), AquaticBird (peppy), Flies(peppy) and E, Penguin(peppy), Bird(peppy), AquaticBird (peppy), Flies(peppy) In one extension, Peppy can fly and in the other one it cannot. This is to be expected because the theory is inherently ambiguous. However, even when there is a basis for selecting one from two extensions, Default Logic does not have a mechanism to choose it. For example, if instead of saying that aquatic birds cannot fly we had asserted penguins cannot fly Default Theory still cannot say that the extension in which Peppy the penguin cannot fly, is the preferred extension. One is compelled to accept one of the two forms of reasoning. A Skeptical reasoner accepts a sentence, only if it is present in all the extensions. A Credulous reasoner accepts a sentence if it is present in some extension. It is also possible that a default theory is inconsistent and has no extension. A simple example of that is when F is empty, and D consists of the single rule. true : Flies(tweety) Flies(tweety) On the other hand, consider a variation which says it can be ass