orpora. The next step would be for machines to be able to learn new concepts. Admittedly, the earliest attempts at learning were directed towards this goal, but the availability of increasing amount of computational power shifted attention to what one might call the low hanging fruit where this computational power could be unleashed on large amounts of data to learn simple, but useful concepts. An IBM advertisement for big data analytics, for example, says that the techniques helped a small bakery decide upon what items to produce, which resulted in increased sales. We have not focused too much on the area of machine learning despite the considerable amount of attention that it periodically gets. Machine learning holds for us the lure of a self organising system that will build itself. In a way it is like the search for the philosopher's stone. And are we not ourselves perfect examples of such systems? Yes we are. But consider the amazingly long process that has led to it. Humanlike creatures evolved after millions of years. The brain evolved from simple sensory perception hardware into an information processing cognitive network. Our brains represent the world we live in. They also represent us living in the world, and we are able to think about or brains representing all this. Not only can we represent facts about the world, we can also create imaginary worlds in our minds. The only problem is that we do not yet understand how the brain represents everything. We know that human infants are born with very few abilities, and need to be nurtured for long periods. We understand that it is this nurturing or training that gives us the advantage of being able to survive in any world we grow in. We are born with a brain that allows us to learn. The brain that evolved over millions of years is the brain that will need many years to tune to the world. But we do not yet know how the years of sensory perception and symbolic (linguistic) instruction is accumulated in our heads