 2008) and (Angelova, 2009). 14.10 Discussion In this chapter, we have looked at various approaches designed to speed up the accessing of related information. In principle, one could have used first order logic with reification to represent most things that are of interest. However, it is when we need to find connections between different facts that the prospect of structured representations comes to the fore. The notion of the schema has been investigated by many people including psychologists, philosophers and computer scientists. The notion of pulling together things into chunks and representing the reified composite elements offers a way of cutting down upon the sheer number of facts that we often want to abstract away from. The concept of Gestalt refers to the form forming ability of our senses, 4 of being able to focus on the whole rather than on the sum of the parts, and is a key to understanding the schema. The other feature needed for rapid access to related concepts is via networking of concepts into a semantic network. As a consequence, representation of large amounts of knowledge involves the construction of inheritance and abstraction hierarchies. A host of efforts have been made to achieving these ends, some in which the user is required to specify the agglomerations and the connections, and others in which the user just specifies a description the structure follows. It can safely be said that the construction of knowledge structures and reasoning with them is going to occupy Al researchers for a while. ) e a Exercises 1. Of the different meanings of the sentence Time flies like an arrow , which one occurs to you? Show the nodes that will be activated in the network in Figure 14.10. Add new nodes and edges where required. 2. A tomato is a vegetable. A tomato is a fruit. A tomato can be fried. A vegetable is a something that can be fried. Fruits cannot be fried. Something that can be fried is a kind of something that can be cooked. A vegetable is someth