he details here. Whate'er the variable types used in a measure, they should all he properk. scaled or normalized to prevent variables having large values from negating the eltects of smaller valued variables. This could happen when one variable is scaled in millimeters and another variable in meters. Similarity Measures For many problems, distance metrics are not appropriate Instead, a measure of similarity satisfying conditions different from those of Table 10.1 may be more appropriate Of course, measures of dissimilarity (or similarity), like distance, should decrease (or increase) as objects become more alike. There is strong evidence, however, to suggest that similarities are not in general symmetric (Tversky, 1977) and hence, any similarity measure between a subject description A and its referrent B, denoted by .c(A,B), is not necessarily equal: that is, in general, s(A,B) k s(B,.4) or "A is like B" may not be the same as "B is like A." Tests on subjects have shown that in similarity comparisons, the focus of attention is on the subject and, therefore, subject features are given higher weights than the referrent. For example, in tests comparing countries, statements like "North Korea is similar to Red China" and "Red China is similar to North Korea" or "the Sec. 10.3 Measures for Matching 197 USA is like Mexico" and "Mexico is like the USA" were not rated as s)ilimetrical or equal. The likenesses and differences in these cases are directional. Moreos-er. like many interpretations in Al. similarities may depend strongly on the contest in which the comparisons are made. They may also depend on the purpose of the comparison. An interesting family of similarity measures which takes into account such factors as asymmetry and has some intuitive appeal has recentl y been proposed (Tversky. 1977). Such measures may be adapted to give more realistic results for similarity measures in Al applications where context and purpose should influence the similarity comparisons. 