pping can display aisles market items. checkout stands cashier money SCENE1 Enter Market shopper PTRANS shopper into market shopper PTRANS shopping-cart to shopper Sc ENE2 Shop For Items shopper MOVE shopper through aisles shopper ATTEND eyes to display items shopper FFRANS items to shopping cart SCENE3 Check Out shopper MOVE shopper to checkout stand shopper WAIT shopper turn shopper ATTEND eyes to charges shopper ATRANS money to cashier sacker ATRANS bags to shopper SCENE4 Exit Market shopper PTRANS shopper to exit -market RESULTS shopper has less money shopper has grocery items market has less grocery items market has more money Figure 7.12 A supermarket script structure. 144 Structured Knowledge: Graphs, Frames, and Related Structures Chap. 7 of actors, roles, props, and scenes. Slots in a script which correspond to parts of the event are filled with CD primiti.es as defined above. An example of a supermarket script is illustrated in Figure 7.12. This script has four scenes which correspond to the main events which commonly occur in a supermarket shopping experience. Reasoning wdh Scripts Since scripts contain knowledge that people use for common every day activities, they can be used to provide an expected scenario for a given situation. Reasoning in a script begins with the creation of a partially filled script named to meet the current situation. Next, a known script which matches the current situation is recalled from memory. The script name, preconditions, or other key words provide index values with which to search for the appropriate script. Inference is accomplished by filling in slots with inherited and default values that satisfy certain conditions. For example, if it is known that Joe-PTRANS-Joe into a supermarket and Joe ATRANS-cashier money, it can be inferred that Joe needed groceries, shopped for items, paid the cashier, checked out, and left the market with groceries but with less money than when he entered. Scripts have now been used in a number