talk both about nonmonotonic reasoning and about monotonic reasoning in a changing world. 3. How can knowledge be used to help resolve conflicts when there are several in consistent nonmonotonic inferences that could be drawn? \t turns out that when inferences can be based on the lack of knowledge as well as on its presence, contradictions are much more likely to occur than they were in conventional logical systems in which the only possible contradictions were those that depended on facts that were explicitly asserted to be true. In particular, in nonmonotonic systems, there are often portions of the knowledge base that are locally consistent but mutually (globally) inconsistent. As we show below, many techniques for reasoning nonmonotonically are able to define the alternatives that could be believed, but most of them provide no way to choose among the options when not all of them can be believed at once. To do this, we require additional methods for resolving such conflicts in ways that are most appropriate for the particular problem that is being solved. For example, as soon as we conclude that Abbott, Babbitt, and Cabot all claim that they didn t commit a crime, yet we conclude that one of them must have since there s no one else who is believed to have had a motive, we have a contradiction, which we want to resolve in some particular way based on other knowledge that we have. In this case, for example, we choose to resolve the conflict by finding the person with the weakest alibi and believing that he committed the crime (which involves believing other things, such as that the chosen suspect lied). The rest of this chapter is divided into five parts. In the first, we present several Jogical formalisms that provide mechanisms for performing nonmonotonic reasoning. In the last four, we discuss approaches to the implementation of such reasoning in problem-solving programs. For more detailed descriptions of many of these systems, see the papers in Ginsberg [1987].