 it makes referring to the state description fairly complex. Modify the initial state description as appropriate, but also record at each node an indication of what to do to undo the move should it ever be necessary to backtrack through the node. Then, whenever it is necessary to backtrack, check each node along the way and perform the indicated operations on the state description. Sometimes, even these solutions are not enough. We might want to remember, for example, in the robot world, that before the table was moved, it was under the window and after being moved, it was in the center of the room. This can be handled by adding to the representation of each fact a specific indication of the time at which that fact was true. This indication is called a state variable. But to apply the same technique to a realworld problem, we need, for example, separate facts to indicate all the times at which the Statue of Liberty is in New York. There is no simple answer either to the question of knowledge representation or to the frame problem. Each of them is discussed in greater depth later in the context of specific problems. But it is important to keep these questions in mind when considering search strategies, since the representation of knowledge and the search process depend heavily on each other. SUMMARY The purpose of this chapter has been to outline the need for knowledge in reasoning programs and to survey issues that must be addressed in the design of a good knowledge representation structure. Of course, we have not covered everything. In the chapters that follow, we describe some specific representations and look at their relative strengths and weaknesses. The following collections all contain further discussions of the fundamental issues in knowledge representation, along with specific techniques to address these issues: Bobrow [1975], Winograd [1978], Brachman and Levesque [1985], and Halpern [1986]. For especially clear discussions of specific issues on the topic 