vior should satisfy, and the
nature of the environment. A variety of different agent designs are possible, ranging from
reflex agents to fully deliberative, knowledge-based, decision-theoretic agents. Moreover,
thecomponentsofthesedesignscanhaveanumberofdifferentinstantiations for example,
logicalorprobabilisticreasoning,andatomic,factored, orstructuredrepresentationsofstates.
Theintervening chapterspresented theprinciples bywhich thesecomponents operate.
Forall the agent designs and components, there has been tremendous progress both in
our scientific understanding and in our technological capabilities. In this chapter, we stand
back from the details and ask, Will all this progress lead to a general-purpose intelligent
agent that can perform well in a wide variety of environments? Section 27.1 looks at the
components ofanintelligent agent toassess what s knownandwhat smissing. Section 27.2
doesthesamefortheoverallagentarchitecture. Section27.3askswhetherdesigningrational
agents is the right goal in the first place. (The answer is, Not really, but it s OK for now. )
Finally,Section27.4examinestheconsequences ofsuccessinourendeavors.
27.1 AGENT COMPONENTS
Chapter 2 presented several agent designs and their components. To focus our discussion
here, wewilllook attheutility-based agent, whichweshow againin Figure 27.1. Whenen-
dowedwithalearningcomponent(Figure2.15),thisisthemostgeneralofouragentdesigns.
Let sseewherethestateoftheartstandsforeachofthecomponents.
Interaction with the environment through sensors and actuators: For much of the
history of AI, this has been a glaring weak point. With a few honorable exceptions, AI sys-
temswerebuiltinsuchawaythathumanshadtosupplytheinputsandinterpret theoutputs,
1044
Section27.1. Agent Components 1045
Agent
Environment
Sensors
State
What the world
How the world evolves is like now
What it will be like
What my actions do if I do action A
How happy I will be
Utility
in such a state
What action I
should do now
Actuators
Figure2