C unit as in the case of the vidicon tube. The density of the I Vithcon tube Ti vo v lt a a r g y e in g An c a o i n o v / e d r t t Q er t v I A nu rr m a b y e o rs f the image to numbers. Figure 14.4 Transfonmog Sec. 14.2 Image Transformation and Low-Level Processing 291 detectors on the chip is quite high. For example, a CCD chip of about five square centimeters in area may contain as many as 1000 by 1000 detectors. The numeric outputs from the ADC units are collected as arrays of numbers which correspond to the light intensity of the image on the surface of the transducer. This is the input to the next stage of processing illustrated in Figure 14.4. Processing the Quantized Arrays I 'array of numbers produced from the image sensing device may be thought of as the Jowct, T1Oct primitive level of abstraction in the vision understanding process. The next step in the P rocessing hierarchy is to find some structure among the pixels such as pixel clusters W1ii<h define object boundaries or regions within the image. Thus, it is necessary to transform the array of raw pixel data into regions of discont ties and hom jnuj ogeneity, to find edges and other delimiters of these object regions. A raw digitized image Will contain some noise and distortion, lheretofe, computations to reduce these effects may be necessary before locating edges and regions. Depending on the particular application, low level processing will often require local smoothing of the array to eliminate this noise. Other low level operations include threshold processing to help define homogeneous regions, and different forms of edge detection to define boundaries. We examine some of these low level methods next. Thresholding is the process of transforming a gray level representation to a binary representation of the image. All digitized array values above some threshold level T are set equal to the maximum gray-level value (black), and values less than or equal to I are set equal to zero (white). For si