he current state facts in the database, adding new ones and deleting the ones no longer true. That is sufficient for the task of planning. But if one wants to reason explicitly about change then fluents must be associated with time information. We shall look at reasoning about events a little later in the chapter. The definition of an action predicate (or a planning operator) usually ignores the temporal aspect of the action. Natural languages, on the other hand, are finely tuned to dealing with tense and modality. If we define the predicate Hit(X, Y) to stand for X hit Y then what about the other tenses that language allows us, like X will hit Y , or X is hitting Y , or X was hitting Y ; or X wants to hit Y , or X had planned to (but did not) hit Y . As we will see these and other issues can be tackled if we admit into our domain the abstract element standing for an action or an event. This is known as reification. If we say that action a Hit(Azizi32, Anuun12) and add it to the domain, then we can also talk of properties of a . Given a domain, the terms of a language like FOL refer to the elements of the domain. Reification allows us to add more elements to the universe of discourse by extending the conceptual space to include symbolizations of higher order constructs like those representing events and actions. Reification also allows us to represent compound objects as entities composed from smaller parts. And almost everything that we talk about is in fact a compound object. For example, at one of the lowest levels of detail, the hydrogen atom is a reified concept made up of a proton and an electron in perpetual entanglement. It does not exist independent of its constituents, but is made of them. Likewise the other elements like carbon, silicon and sulfur too are made of subatomic particles. According to the atomic theories of yesteryears, when atoms were supposed to be indvisible, the world is made up of a large collection of atoms existing in many clust rziahdt