SAL
attimet 1issampledconditional onboththestateattimetandtheevidenceattimet 1.
This allows the evidence to influence sample generation directly and was proved by Doucet
(1997)and Liuand Chen(1998)toreducetheapproximationerror. Particlefilteringhasbeen
appliedinmanyareas,includingtrackingcomplexmotionpatternsinvideo(Isardand Blake,
1996), predicting the stock market (de Freitas et al., 2000), and diagnosing faults on plane-
RAO-
tary rovers (Verma et al., 2004). A variant called the Rao-Blackwellized particle filter or
BLACKWELLIZED
PARTICLEFILTER
RBPF (Doucet et al., 2000; Murphy and Russell, 2001) applies particle filtering to a subset
ofstate variables and, foreach particle, performs exact inference on the remaining variables
conditionedonthevaluesequenceintheparticle. Insomecases RBP Fworkswellwiththou-
sands of state variables. An application of RBPF to localization and mapping in robotics is
describedin Chapter25. Thebookby Doucetetal.(2001)collectsmanyimportantpaperson
SEQUENTIALMONTE sequential Monte Carlo(SMC)algorithms, ofwhichparticlefilteringisthemostimportant
CARLO
instance. Pierre Del Moral and colleagues have performed extensive theoretical analyses of
SM Calgorithms(Del Moral,2004;Del Moraletal.,2006).
MCMC methods (see Section 14.5.2) can be applied to the filtering problem; for ex-
ample, Gibbssampling canbeapplied directly toanunrolled DBN.Toavoid theproblem of
increasing update times as the unrolled network grows, the decayed MCMC filter (Marthi
DECAYEDMCMC
et al., 2002) prefers to sample more recent state variables, with a probability that decays as
1 k2 for a variable k steps into the past. Decayed MCMC is a provably nondivergent filter.
ASSUMED-DENSITY Nondivergence theorems can also be obtained for certain types of assumed-density filter.
FILTER
Anassumed-density filterassumesthattheposteriordistribution overstatesattimetbelongs
toaparticular finitelyparameterized family;iftheprojection andupdatestepstakeitoutside
this family, the distributio