oncewedefinetheacousticandlanguage
models. Wecoverthemnext.
914 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
Vowels Consonants B N Consonants P Z
Phone Example Phone Example Phone Example iy beat b bet p pet ih bit ch Chet r rat eh bet d debt s set bat f fat sh shoe ah but g get t ten ao bought hh hat th thick ow boat hv high dh that uh book jh jet dx butter ey bait k kick v vet er Bert l let w wet ay buy el bottle wh which oy boy m met y yet axr diner em bottom z zoo aw down n net zh measure ax about en button ix roses ng sing aa cot eng washing - silence
Figure 23.14 The ARPA phonetic alphabet, or ARP Abet, listing all the phonesused in
American English. There are several alternative notations, including an International Pho-
netic Alphabet(IPA),whichcontainsthephonesinallknownlanguages.
23.5.1 Acousticmodel
Sound waves are periodic changes in pressure that propagate through the air. When these
waves strike the diaphragm of a microphone, the back-and-forth movement generates an
electric current. An analog-to-digital converter measures the size of the current which ap-
proximates theamplitude ofthesound wave atdiscrete intervals called the samplingrate.
SAMPLINGRATE
Speechsounds, whicharemostlyintherangeof100Hz(100cyclespersecond)to1000Hz,
are typically sampled at arate of 8 k Hz. (CDs and mp3 files are sampled at 44.1 k Hz.) The
QUANTIZATION precisionofeachmeasurementisdeterminedbythequantizationfactor;speechrecognizers
FACTOR
typically keep 8 to 12 bits. That means that a low-end system, sampling at 8 k Hzwith 8-bit
quantization, wouldrequirenearlyhalfamegabyteperminuteofspeech.
Since we only want to know what words were spoken, not exactly what they sounded
like, wedon t need tokeep allthatinformation. Weonly need todistinguish between differ-
entspeechsounds. Linguistshaveidentifiedabout100speechsounds,orphones,thatcanbe
PHONE
composed to form all the words in all known human languages. Roughly speaking, a phone
is the sound that corresponds to a single vowel 