l intelligence is that since computers are not capable of self awareness, being just programmed machines, they cannot be called intelligent. One suspects that such objections are made in anticipation of technical advances. Earlier, the challenges were posed at a technical level, one of the more celebrated ones being the one by the chess grandmaster David Levy in 1968, who wagered a bet of 1000 that a computer could not beat him in the next ten years. He did not lose his bet, but in 1989 lost to the program Deep Thought, and in 1997, a chess computer beat the world champion Gary Kasparov (Hsu, 2002). David Levy, meanwhile, won the 2009 Loebner Prize contest (see below) and now believes that robots will be able to interact with humans in many meaningful ways, including at an emotional and physical level (Levy, 2008). The requirement of self awareness lays the trap of solipsism.12 How am to be aware of someone else s self awareness? Can even say confidently of another human being that she is self aware as am? We all agree that sugar is sweet and the sky is blue. But how do know that the sensations of sweetness that sugar gives rise in me, are the same as in you? We may both say that the sky is blue. But is your experiencing of blue the same as mine? When you say that you are feeling happy, can really understand what you feel? If we answer yes to some of these questions then on what basis do we do that? Is it based on our physical likeness? Or the common language that we speak? Or the similar goals we seem to have? And yet there is another argument against this criterion of self awareness. f can ascribe it to a fellow human being, can deny it to other animals, and other life forms? Surely, a cheetah is aware that it is hungry when it embarks upon a hunt. Then if we associate self awareness with life and require it to be a necessary criterion for intelligence then in effect we would be denying the computer the property of being intelligent; not because it cannot do somet