and v need not be distinct and the result also applies for B:v. It there were two toilets, t; and to, then the CPG would have found the solution of dunking each package in a different toilet. The reader is encouraged to construct the corresponding planning graphs on paper, and verify that there are two distinct conformant plans for diffusing the bomb. Given an action A that is desirable in some world, one can sometimes prevent an undesirable induced aspect A in a different possible world. This is done by confronting the undesirable aspect by making some precondition of A false. This is similar to the process in which only desirable aspects are included in IP? as described in the previous section. Conformant GraphPlan can also include uncertainty in the effects of actions. Consider the case when the dunking action may or may not clog the toilet. This could be represented as different possible outcomes in PDDL-like fashion as follows. (:action dunk3 tparameters (?p - package ?t -toilet) tprecondition (not (clogged ?t)) :effect (or (when(in bomb ?p) (diffused bomb) ) and (clogged ?t) (when(in bomb ?p) (diffused bomb)))) This action will have two aspects as before. (:action dunk3 iparameters (2p - package ?t -toilet) sprecondition (and (in bomb ?p) (not (clogged ?t))) :effect (or (diffused bomb) ) (and (clogged ?t) (diffused bomb) ))) (:action dunk3iparameters (2p - package ?t -toilet) sprecondition (not (clogged ?t)) :effect (or () (clogged ?t))) Inclusion of such an aspect in the planning graph in world w; will result in w; splitting into two new worlds wy and wj2 in the next layer, containing the two different effects. Observe that action dunk3- may not have any effect in some resulting world. If we were to expand the first layer of the planning graph in w, then we would include two aspects Dunk3 (p1, t):w7 and Dunk3-(p2, t):w1. These two actions would split the world w, into four worlds wy4, W142, W43 and wy4. In w44, the package p, would be dunked, the bomb would b