 that they program in Lisp Language and no others. The time at which the default reasoning is actually performed is determined by the direction of the slot Value Subsumes rules. If the direction is backward, the rule is an if-needed rule, and it is invoked whenever someone inquires as to the value of Mary s likes slot. (In this case, the rule infers that Mary likes Bob but not Jane.) If the direction is forward, the rule is an if-added rule, and additions are automatically propagated to Mary s likes slot. For example, after we place LISP on Bob s programsin slot, then the system quickly places Bob on Mary s Jikes slot for us. A truth maintenance system (see Chapter 7) ensures that if Bob ceases to be a Lisp programmer (or if he starts using Pascal), then he will also cease to appear on Mary s likes slot. While forward rules can be very useful, they can also require substantial time and space to propagate their values. If a rule is entered as backward, then the system defers reasoning until the information is specifically requested. CYC maintains a separate background process for accomplishing forward propagations. A 218 Artificial Intelligence Ase ste URE ONCLa ERERERNEEREIEDE TESTS SIESA knowledge engineer can continue entering knowledge while its effects are propagated during idle keyboard time.* Now let us return to the constraint language itself. Recall that it allows for the expression of facts as arbitrary logical expressions. Since first-order logic is much more powerful than CYC s frame language, why does CYC maintain both? The reason is that frame-based inference is very efficient, while general logical reasoning is computationally hard. CYC actually supports about twenty types of efficient inference mechanisms (including inheritance and transfers-through), each with its own truth maintenance facility. The constraint language allows for the expression of facts that are too complex for any of these mechanisms to handle. The constraint language also provides 