 have been splitting matter for more than a century without yet being able to construct a theory of the universe. 11 Buddhist monks too have long asserted otherwise. Modern psychology also says that we can control the pace of our time (see for example (Mansfield, 1998)). In Chennai, where the author lives, we do not need such wizardry, unless you are interested in the subtle distinction between hot and hotter weather. 13 Even in Chennai. fo) for) o 12 agent to act in a meaningful manner, it must have some kind of synpboliqnerresentation about tr 2d. To think, to contemplate, to cogitate about some real thing or event is to create some repre: and perhaps manipulate those representations. The physical symbol system hypothesis (PSSH) ind Herbert Simon (1963) says that the ability to represent symbolic structures and manipul y to some fixed laws is necessary and sufficient to create intelligence. We will not argue abou , but it certainly seems to be a necessary perquisite for intelligent activity. By intelligent activity we 1 nization, which can be achieved for example by mindless competition and survival, but somet awareness of goals, awareness of the situation, and informed decision making. The only way one fully, or profitably, is by being able to imagine, or create imaginary imitations of, the real thing. O1 's not exist in reality. nation is the key to intelligence. Imagination happens in the mind of the thinker, while action happe J. Imagination is necessary for awareness. It is sufficient if the premises are true for the conclusion tc necessary for the premises to be true for the conclusion to be true. Contrariwise, it is necessary , that the conclusion be true for the premises to be true. ssence of logical reasoning is (a mechanism of) arriving at incontrovertible inferences in some repre ormal Logic ogic is the machinery for realizing such reasoning. It is essentially a symbol manipulation machine atements taken to be true, the machinery determines what other s