tvalid),
orunsatisfiable.
b. Convert the left-hand and right-hand sides of the main implication into CNF, showing
eachstep,andexplainhowtheresultsconfirmyouranswerto(a).
c. Proveyouranswerto(a)usingresolution.
DISJUNCTIVE 7.19 Asentenceisindisjunctivenormalform(DNF)ifitisthedisjunctionofconjunctions
NORMALFORM
ofliterals. Forexample, thesentence (A B C) ( A C) (B C)isin DNF.
a. Anypropositional logic sentence islogically equivalent totheassertion that somepos-
sible world in which it would be true is in fact the case. From this observation, prove
thatanysentence canbewrittenin DNF.
b. Construct an algorithm that converts any sentence in propositional logic into DNF.
(Hint: The algorithm is similar to the algorithm for conversion to CNF given in Sec-
tion7.5.2.)
c. Construct asimplealgorithm thattakes asinput asentence in DN Fandreturns asatis-
fyingassignment ifoneexists,orreportsthatnosatisfying assignment exists.
d. Applythealgorithms in(b)and(c)tothefollowingsetofsentences:
A B
B C
C A.
e. Since the algorithm in (b) is very similar to the algorithm for conversion to CNF, and
since the algorithm in (c) is much simpler than any algorithm for solving a set of sen-
tencesin CNF,whyisthistechnique notusedinautomated reasoning?
7.20 Convertthefollowingsetofsentences toclausalform.
S1: A (B E).
S2: E D.
S3: C F B.
S4: E B.
S5: B F.
S6: B C
Giveatraceoftheexecutionof DPL Lontheconjunction oftheseclauses.
284 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
7.21 Is arandomly generated 4-CNF sentence with n symbols and m clauses more orless
likely to be solvable than a randomly generated 3-CNF sentence with n symbols and m
clauses? Explain.
7.22 Minesweeper,thewell-knowncomputergame,iscloselyrelatedtothewumpusworld.
A minesweeper world is a rectangular grid of N squares with M invisible mines scattered
among them. Any square may be probed by the agent; instant death follows if a mine is
probed. Minesweeper indicates the presence of mines by revealing, in each probed square,
the number of mines t