 logic, probability, andcontinuous mathematics;
perception, reasoning, learning, and action; and everything from microelectronic devices to
roboticplanetary explorers. Thebookisalsobigbecause we gointosomedepth.
Thesubtitleofthisbookis AModern Approach. Theintendedmeaningofthisrather
empty phrase is that we have tried to synthesize what is now known into a common frame-
work, rather than trying to explain each subfield of AI in its own historical context. We
apologize tothosewhosesubfieldsare,asaresult, lessrecognizable.
New to this edition
This edition captures the changes in AI that have taken place since the last edition in 2003.
There have been important applications of AI technology, such as the widespread deploy-
ment of practical speech recognition, machine translation, autonomous vehicles, and house-
hold robotics. There have been algorithmic landmarks, such as the solution of the game of
checkers. And there has been a great deal of theoretical progress, particularly in areas such
asprobabilistic reasoning, machine learning, andcomputervision. Mostimportant from our
point of view is the continued evolution in how we think about the field, and thus how we
organize thebook. Themajorchanges areasfollows: We place more emphasis on partially observable and nondeterministic environments,
especially in the nonprobabilistic settings of search and planning. The concepts of
beliefstate(asetofpossible worlds)andstateestimation (maintaining thebeliefstate)
areintroduced inthesesettings; laterinthebook,weaddprobabilities. Inaddition to discussing the types of environments and types of agents, wenow cover
inmoredepththetypesofrepresentations thatanagentcanuse. Wedistinguishamong
atomic representations (in which each state of the world is treated as a black box),
factoredrepresentations(inwhichastateisasetofattribute valuepairs),andstructured
representations (inwhichtheworldconsists ofobjectsand relations betweenthem). Our coverage of planning goes into more depth on conti