efforthasbeenexpendedtoimprovethecapabilities
of TSP algorithms. In addition to planning trips for traveling salespersons, these algorithms
havebeenusedfortaskssuchasplanningmovementsofautomaticcircuit-board drillsandof
stocking machinesonshopfloors.
A VLS Ilayout problem requires positioning millions of components and connections
VLSILAYOUT
on a chip to minimize area, minimize circuit delays, minimize stray capacitances, and max-
imize manufacturing yield. The layout problem comes after the logical design phase and is
usually split into two parts: cell layout and channel routing. In cell layout, the primitive
components of the circuit are grouped into cells, each of which performs some recognized
function. Each cell has a fixed footprint (size and shape) and requires a certain number of
connectionstoeachoftheothercells. Theaimistoplacethecellsonthechipsothattheydo
notoverlapandsothatthereisroomfortheconnecting wires tobeplacedbetweenthecells.
Channelroutingfindsaspecificrouteforeachwirethroughthegapsbetweenthecells. These
search problems are extremely complex, but definitely worth solving. Later in this chapter,
wepresentsomealgorithmscapable ofsolving them.
Robot navigation is a generalization of the route-finding problem described earlier.
ROBOTNAVIGATION
Rather than following a discrete set of routes, a robot can move in a continuous space with
(in principle) an infinite set of possible actions and states. For a circular robot moving on a
flat surface, the space is essentially two-dimensional. When the robot has arms and legs or
wheelsthatmustalsobecontrolled, thesearchspacebecomesmany-dimensional. Advanced
techniques are required just to make the search space finite. We examine some of these
methods in Chapter 25. In addition to the complexity of the problem, real robots must also
dealwitherrorsintheirsensorreadings andmotorcontrols.
AUTOMATIC
ASSEMBLY
Automaticassemblysequencingofcomplexobjectsbyarobotwasfirstdemonstrated
SEQUENCING
by FREDDY (Michie, 1972). P