d now be clear how an ATN can be used to build structures for different grammars, like those described in Section 12.3. But, we have not yet explained how the final semantic knowledge structures are created to satisfy the requirements of a knowledge base used to represent some particular world model. Experience has shown the semantic interpretation to he the most difficult stage in the transformation process. As an example of some of the difficulties encountered in extracting the full intended meaning of some utterances, consider the following situation. It turned into a black day. In his haste to catch the flight, he hacked over Tom's bicycle. He should never have left it there. It was damaged beyond repair..That caused the tailpipe to break. It would be impossible to make it now. . . - It was all because of that late movie. He would he heartbroken when he found Out about It. Although a car was never explicitly mentioned, it must be assumed that a car was the object which was backed over Tom's bicycle. A program must be able to infer this. The "black day" metaphor also requires some inference. Days are not usually referred to by color. And sorting out the pronoun references can also he an onerous task for 'a program. Of the seven uses of it, two refer to the bicycle. two to the flight, two refer to the situation in general, and one to the status of the day. There are also four uses of he referring to two different people and a that which refers to the accident in general. The placement of the pronouns is almost at random making it difficult to give any rule of association. Words that point hack or refer to people, places, objects, events, times, and so on that occurred before, are culled anaphors. Their interpretation may require the use of heuristics, syntactic and semantic constraints, inference, and other forms of object analysis within the discourse content. This example should demonstrate again that language cannot be separated from intelligence and reasoning.