986). Techniques
forfindingtextureboundariesbasedonmultiscale,multiorientationfilteringofimagesdateto
work such as Malik and Perona (1990). Combining multiple clues brightness, texture and
color for finding boundary curves in a learning framework wasshown by Martin, Fowlkes
and Malik(2004)toconsiderably improveperformance.
The closely related problem of finding regions of coherent brightness, color, and tex-
ture, naturally lends itself to formulations in which finding the best partition becomes an
optimization problem. Three leading examples are the Markov Random Fields approach of
Geman and Geman (1984), the variational formulation of Mumford and Shah (1989), and
normalized cutsby Shiand Malik(2000).
Through much of the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, there were two distinct paradigms in
which visual recognition was pursued, dictated by different perspectives on what was per-
ceivedtobetheprimaryproblem. Computervisionresearchonobjectrecognitionlargelyfo-
cusedonissuesarisingfromtheprojectionofthree-dimensionalobjectsontotwo-dimensional
images. Theideaofalignment,alsofirstintroducedby Roberts,resurfacedinthe1980sinthe
work of Lowe (1987) and Huttenlocher and Ullman (1990). Also popular was an approach
GENERALIZED based on describing shapes in terms of volumetric primitives, with generalized cylinders,
CYLINDER
introduced by Tom Binford(1971),proving particularly popular.
Incontrast,thepatternrecognitioncommunityviewedthe3D-to-2Daspectsoftheprob-
lem asnot significant. Theirmotivating examples wereindomains such as optical character
recognition andhandwritten zipcoderecognition wherethe primaryconcern isthatoflearn-
ing the typical variations characteristic of a class of objects and separating them from other
classes. See Le Cunetal.(1995)foracomparison ofapproaches.
In the late 1990s, these two paradigms started to converge, as both sides adopted the
probabilistic modeling and learning techniques that were becoming popular throughout AI.
Twolinesofworkcontributed signific