esources to long-Fange research programs in Al. In particular, the Japanese government has undertaken a cooperative program with several industrial companies to develop intelligent supercomputers within a ten-year period. Also in this chapter, we considered some of the basic research priorities related to knowledge-based systems: knowledge representation. knowledge organization, knowledge manipulation, and knowledge acquisition. These topics form the main theme of the remaining chapters. EXERCISES 2.1 Define and describe the difference between knowledge, belief, hypotheses, and data. 2.2 What is the difference between declarative and procedural knowledge? 3I is Knowledge: General Concepts Chap. 2 2.3 Look up the meaning of epistemology in a good encyclopedia and prepare a definition. 2.4 The Turing test has often been incorrectly interpreted as being a test of whether or not a person could distinguish between responses from a computer and responses from a person. How does this differ from the real Turing test? Are the two tests equivalent? If not, explain why they are not? 2.5 What important knowledge products are currently being marketed like other commodities? What are some new knoledge products likely to be sold within the next ten years? 2.6 Briefly describe the me inng of knowledge representation and knowledge acquisition. 2.7 Give four different ways to represent the fact that John is Bill's father. LISP and Other Al Programming Languages LISP is one of the oldest computer programming languages. It was invented by John Mc Carthy during the late 1950s, shortly after the development of FORTRAN. LISP (for USt Processing) is particularly suited for Al programs because of its ability to process symbolic information effectively. It is a language with a simple syntax, with little or no data typing and dynamic memory management. There are several dialects of LISP i chding FRANZLISP, INTERLISP. MACLISP, QLISP. SCHEME, and COMMON LISP. The COMMON LISP version is a recen