toftheknowledgebase. Incontrast,
Section8.4. Knowledge Engineering in First-Order Logic 309
atypicalerrorinaprogramlookslikethis:
offset position 1.
Itisimpossibletotellwhetherthisstatementiscorrectwithoutlookingattherestofthe
program to see whether, for example, offsetis used to refer to the current position,
or to one beyond the current position, or whether the value of positionis changed
byanotherstatementandsooffsetshouldalsobechanged again.
To understand this seven-step process better, we now apply it to an extended example the
domainofelectronic circuits.
8.4.2 The electronic circuits domain
Wewilldevelopanontologyandknowledgebasethatallowustoreasonaboutdigitalcircuits
ofthekindshownin Figure8.6. Wefollowtheseven-stepprocessforknowledgeengineering.
Identifythetask
There are many reasoning tasks associated with digital circuits. At the highest level, one
analyzes the circuit s functionality. For example, does the circuit in Figure 8.6 actually add
properly? If all the inputs are high, what is the output of gate A2? Questions about the
circuit s structure are also interesting. For example, what are all the gates connected to the
firstinput terminal? Doesthe circuit contain feedback loops? Thesewillbeourtasks inthis
section. There are more detailed levels of analysis, including those related to timing delays,
circuit area, power consumption, production cost, and so on. Each of these levels would
requireadditional knowledge.
Assembletherelevantknowledge
What do we know about digital circuits? Forour purposes, they are composed of wires and
gates. Signals flow along wires to the input terminals of gates, and each gate produces a
C
1
1
2 X 1 X 2 1
3 A
2
A O 1 2
1
Figure8.6 Adigitalcircuit C1,purportingtobeaone-bitfulladder. Thefirsttwoinputs
arethetwobitstobeadded,andthethirdinputisacarrybit. Thefirstoutputisthesum,and
thesecondoutputisacarrybitforthenextadder. Thecircuitcontainstwo XO Rgates,two
AN Dgates,andone ORgate.
310 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
signal on th