nlysucceedafterthevariableshave
beenstandardizedapart.
350 Chapter 9. Inference in First-Order Logic
Theproofanswersthequestion Did Curiosity killthecat? butoftenwewanttoposemore
general questions, such as Who killed the cat? Resolution can do this, but it takes a little
more work to obtain the answer. The goal is w Kills(w,Tuna), which, when negated,
becomes Kills(w,Tuna)in CNF.Repeatingtheproofin Figure9.12withthenewnegated
goal, we obtain a similar proof tree, but with the substitution w Curiosity in one of the
steps. So, in this case, finding out who killed the cat is just a matter of keeping track of the
bindings forthequeryvariables intheproof.
NONCONSTRUCTIVE Unfortunately, resolution can produce nonconstructive proofs for existential goals.
PROOF
Forexample, Kills(w,Tuna)resolves with Kills(Jack,Tuna) Kills(Curiosity,Tuna)
to give Kills(Jack,Tuna), which resolves again with Kills(w,Tuna) to yield the empty
clause. Notice that w has two different bindings in this proof; resolution is telling us that,
yes, someone killed Tuna either Jack or Curiosity. This is no great surprise! One so-
lution is to restrict the allowed resolution steps so that the query variables can be bound
only once in a given proof; then we need to be able to backtrack over the possible bind-
ings. Another solution is to add a special answer literal to the negated goal, which be-
ANSWERLITERAL
comes Kills(w,Tuna) Answer(w). Now, the resolution process generates an answer
whenever a clause is generated containing just a single answer literal. Forthe proof in Fig-
ure 9.12, this is Answer(Curiosity). The nonconstructive proof would generate the clause
Answer(Curiosity) Answer(Jack),whichdoesnotconstitute ananswer.
9.5.4 Completeness ofresolution
Thissection givesacompleteness proof ofresolution. Itcanbesafely skipped bythosewho
arewillingtotakeitonfaith.
REFUTATION Weshowthatresolution isrefutation-complete, whichmeansthatifasetofsentences
COMPLETENESS
is unsatisfiable, then resolution will 