ewpoints represent different aspects of a situation, views of the same situation taken at different times, hypothetical Situations, or alternative courses of action. This feature permits a user to compare competing courses of action or to reason in parallel about par1i*1 solutions based on different approaches. KEE's support environment includes a graphics-oriented debugging pack:ige flexible end-user interfaces using 'windows, menus, and an explanation capability with graphic displays which can show inference chains. A graphics-based simulation package called Sim Kit is available at additional cost. KEE has been used for the development of intelligent user interfaces. genetics. diagnosis and monitoring of complicated systems.., planning, design, process control, scheduling, and simulation. The system is LISP based, developed for operation on systems such as Symbolics machines. Xerox I l OOs. or TI Explorers. Systems can also be ported to open architecture machines which support Common LISP without extensive modification. OPS5 System The OPS5 and other OPS building tools were developel at Cniegie Mellon University in conjunction with DEC during the late 1970s. This ssm was developed to build the RIi XCON expert system which configures Vax arid ;r DEC minicomputer systems. The system is used to build rule-based production systems h'ch use forward chaining in the inference process (backward and mixed chaining is a'so possible). The system was written in C language to run on the DEC Vax and other minicomputers. It uses a sophisticated method of indexing rules (the Rete algorithm) to reduce the matching times during the match-select-execute cycle. Examples of OPS5 rules were given above in Section 15.2, and a description of the Pete match al?orithm was given in Section 10.6. 24 354 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 15.7 SUMMARY Expert and other knowledge-based Systems are usually composed of 4t least a knowledge base, an inference engine, and some form of user inter