ately 0.1. In this view, the assertion the
probability ofacavityis0.1 meansthat0.1isthefraction thatwouldbeobserved
in the limit of infinitely many samples. From any finite sample, we can estimate
thetruefractionandalsocalculate howaccurate ourestimateislikelytobe.
The objectivist view is that probabilities are real aspects of the universe propensities of objects to behave in certain ways rather than being just descrip-
tionsofanobserver s degreeofbelief. Forexample,thefactthatafaircoincomes
up heads with probability 0.5 is a propensity of the coin itself. In this view, fre-
quentist measurements areattempts toobserve these propensities. Mostphysicists
agreethatquantum phenomena areobjectively probabilistic, butuncertainty atthe
macroscopic scale e.g., in coin tossing usually arises from ignorance of initial
conditions anddoesnotseemconsistent withthepropensity view.
The subjectivist view describes probabilities as a way of characterizing an
agent s beliefs, rather than as having any external physical significance. The sub-
jective Bayesianviewallowsanyself-consistent ascriptionofpriorprobabilitiesto
propositions, buttheninsistsonproper Bayesianupdating asevidence arrives.
In the end, even a strict frequentist position involves subjective analysis be-
causeofthereferenceclassproblem: intryingtodeterminetheoutcomeprobabil-
ityofaparticular experiment, thefrequentist hastoplaceitinareference classof similar experiments with known outcome frequencies. I. J. Good (1983, p. 27)
wrote, every event in life is unique, and every real-life probability that we esti-
mate in practice is that of an event that has never occurred before. For example,
given a particular patient, a frequentist who wants to estimate the probability of a
cavitywillconsiderareferenceclassofotherpatientswho aresimilarinimportant
ways age, symptoms, diet and seewhatproportion ofthem hadacavity. Ifthe
dentistconsiderseverythingthatisknownaboutthepatient weight tothenearest
gram,haircolor,mother smaidennam