taskisclustering: detecting
CLUSTERING
Section18.2. Supervised Learning 695
potentially useful clusters of input examples. For example, a taxi agent might gradually
develop a concept of good traffic days and bad traffic days without ever being given
labeledexamplesofeachbyateacher.
REINFORCEMENT In reinforcement learning the agent learns from a series of reinforcements rewards
LEARNING
orpunishments. Forexample,thelackofatipattheendofthejourneygivesthetaxiagentan
indication that itdid something wrong. The twopoints fora win at the end of achess game
tellstheagentitdidsomethingright. Itisuptotheagenttodecidewhichoftheactionsprior
tothereinforcement weremostresponsible forit.
SUPERVISED Insupervisedlearningtheagentobservessomeexampleinput output pairsandlearns
LEARNING
afunctionthatmapsfrominputtooutput. Incomponent1above,theinputsarepercepts and
the output are provided by ateacher who says Brake! or Turn left. In component 2, the
inputsarecameraimagesandtheoutputsagaincomefromateacherwhosays that sabus. In3, thetheory ofbraking isafunction from states andbraking actions tostopping distance
in feet. In this case the output value is available directly from the agent s percepts (after the
fact);theenvironment istheteacher.
SEMI-SUPERVISED In practice, these distinction are not always so crisp. In semi-supervised learning we
LEARNING
are given a few labeled examples and must make what we can of a large collection of un-
labeled examples. Even the labels themselves may not be the oracular truths that we hope
for. Imagine thatyou are trying tobuild asystem toguess aperson s age from aphoto. You
gather some labeled examples by snapping pictures of people and asking their age. That s
supervised learning. But in reality some of the people lied about their age. It s not just
that there is random noise in the data; rather the inaccuracies are systematic, and to uncover
themisanunsupervised learningprobleminvolving images, self-reported ages,andtrue(un-
known)ages. Thus,bothnois