stributed representation for solving this problem it is called coarse coding. In coarse coding, we divide the space of possible object locations into a number of large, overlapping, circular zones. See, for example, Fig. 18.27, in which units are depicted as small dots and their receptive fields as large circles. A unit becomes active if any object is located within its receptive field. There is a unit associated with each zone the zone is called the unit s receptive field. * Whenever an object is located in a unit s receptive field, the unit '4 The term receptive field comes from the study of vision. A receptive field of a retinal cell is an area of the retina that the cell is responsible for. The cell is triggered by light in that area. 402 Artificial Intelligence HON OUN SA ETETTREETTPC OER ARISE becomes active. By looking at a single active unit, we cannot tell with any accuracy where an object is located, but by looking at the pattern of activity across all the units, we can actually be quite precise. Consider that the intersection of several circular zones associated with a group of units may be a very smal] area if only those units are active, we can be fairly precise about where the object is located. In fact, as the receptive fields become larger, i.e., as the individual units become /ess discriminating about object locations, the whole representation becomes more accurate, because the regions of intersection become smaller. In the end, we can represent multiple objects with some precision without paying the price of the localist representation scheme. 8 8 7/4] ? 6) 6 sf 5 af 4 o H x | i 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Fig. 18.25 A Localist Representation of Fig. 18.26 A More Efficient Representation, Location (2 3) on an 8 by 8 Grid Requiring Only 16 Units, but Unable to Store Multiple Locations Fig. 18.27 Distributed Representation Using Coarse Coding Connectionist Models 403 RAE AAS IAT BEI CAIRIT IO One drawback to distributed representations is that they cannot store 