oped. Such tools may be as unsophisticated as a bare high level language or as comprehensive as a complete shell development environment. A few representative building tools have been described and some general characteristics of tools for developers were given. The acquisition of expert knowledge for knowledge-based systems remains one of the main bottlenecks in building them. This has led to a new discipline called knowledge engineering. Knowledge engineers build systems by eliciting knowledge from experts. coding that knowledge in an appropriate form, validating the knowledge, and ultimately constructing a system using a variety of building tools. EXERCISES 15.1. What are the main advantages in keeping the knowledge base separate from the control module in knowledge-based systems? 15.2. Why is it important that an expert system be able to explain the why and how questions related to a problem solving session? 15.3. Give an example of the use of meiakriowledge in expert systems inference. Chap. 15 Exercises 355 15.4. Describe and compare the different types of problems solved by four of the earliest expert systems DENDRAL. MYCIN. PROSPECTOR, and RI. 15.5. Identify and describe two good application areas for expert systems within a university environment. 15.6. How do rules in PROLOG differ from general production system rules? 15.7. Make up a small knowledge-base of facts and rules using the same syntax as that used in Figure 15.2 except that they should relate to an office working environment. 15.8. Name four different types of selection criteria that might be used to select the most relevant rules for firing in a production system. 15.9. Describe a method in which rules could be grouped or organized in a knowledge base to reduce the amount of search required during the matching pars of the inference cycle. 15.10. Using the knowledge base of Problem 1.7, simulate three match-select-execute cycles for a query which uses several rules andior facts. 15.11. Explain t