t assignment, it is common
NEAREST-NEIGHBOR to use the so-called nearest-neighbor filter, which repeatedly chooses the closest pairing
FILTER
of predicted position and observation and adds that pairing to the assignment. The nearest-
neighborfilterworkswellwhentheobjectsarewellseparatedinstatespaceandtheprediction
uncertainty and observation error are small in other words, when there is no possibility of
confusion. When there is more uncertainty as to the correct assignment, a better approach
is to choose the assignment that maximizes the joint probability of the current observations
given the predicted positions. This can be done very efficiently using the Hungarian algo-
HUNGARIAN rithm(Kuhn,1955), eventhoughtherearen!assignments tochoosefrom.
ALGORITHM
Anymethod that commits toasingle best assignment ateach timestep fails miserably
under more difficult conditions. In particular, if the algorithm commits to an incorrect as-
signment, the prediction at the next time step may be significantly wrong, leading to more
602 Chapter 15. Probabilistic Reasoning over Time
(a) (b)
Figure15.20 Imagesfrom(a)upstreamand(b)downstreamsurveillancecamerasroughly
two miles apart on Highway 99 in Sacramento, California. The boxed vehicle has been
identifiedatbothcameras.
incorrect assignments, and so on. Two modern approaches turn out to be much more effec-
tive. Aparticlefilteringalgorithm (seepage598)fordataassociation worksbymaintaining
alarge collection ofpossible current assignments. An MCM Calgorithm explores thespace
ofassignment histories for example, Figure15.19(b c) mightbestatesinthe MCM Cstate
space and can change its mind about previous assignment decisions. Current MCM Cdata
association methods can handle many hundreds of objects in real time while giving a good
approximation tothetrueposteriordistributions.
The scenario described so far involved n known objects generating n observations at
each time step. Real application of data association are typically much more com