derer) P(C-murderer) 1 3 Then we could assign degrees of belief to the possibility that they have a valid alibi, P(A-alibi), P(B-alibi) and P(C-alibi). Then we could relate the alibis to the probability of them being murderers, computing the posterior probabilities of the form P(X-murderer X-alibi). Then we could make explicit the relation between a valid alibi to the reliability of the source. In general, such a process of investigation would require collecting together evidence from diverse sources and combining them into a final conclusion. In the Bayesian framework, one would have to set up the different conditional probabilities and populate them with values. The approach would find it difficult to come to conclusions with partial incomplete evidences. One approach that allows us to combine evidences together as and when they come is the Dempster-Shafer theory of evidential reasoning, which is a generalization of Bayesian theory of subjective probability (Dempster, 1968), (Shafer, 1976). 17.7.1 The Dempster-Shafer Theory The Dempster-Shafer (D-S) theory of evidential reasoning is essentially a theory of combining evidences from different sources into one coherent belief system. Unlike the probabilistic approach, it does not require the complete set of prior and conditional probabilities. Let us say that we are investigating a set of exhaustive and mutually exclusive set hypotheses. The set of these hypotheses is called the frame of discernment. Assuming that there are k hypotheses, the frame of discernment is hy, hg, ..., hy . The set is exhaustive in that no hypothesis has been left out, and it is mutually exclusive, in that only one hypothesis is true. In diagnosis terminology, we are assuming that there is a single fault. In medical terms, the patient is suffering from exactly one of the diseases in the frame of discernment. From a detective s point of view, there is only one culprit, and she is present in the set. We illustrate the theory with the following