e entire data from the different sources and can use it to compute answers to queries. Tim Berners-Lee prescribed the following Linked Data principles for people publishing data on the web (Berners-Lee, 2006). 1. Use URIs as names for things 2. Use HTTP URIs so that people can look up those names 3. When someone looks up a URI, provide useful information, using the standards (RDF, SPARQL) 4. Include links to other URIs, so that they can discover more things The URIs are used to uniquely identify objects and the HTTP protocol is used to access them. The data and the links are themselves described using RDFS and OWL (see also Chapter 14). Figure 13.4 depicts the status of the LOD cloud in 2007 (Cyganiak, 2007). Each node in the cloud represents a distinct data set. Each arc represents an RDF link between elements of the two datasets. The arcs are directed indicating the direction of links and the thickness of the edges is an indication of the number of links between the two nodes (Linked Data sets). The content of the cloud is diverse in nature, comprising data about geographic locations, people, companies, books, scientific publications, films, music, television and radio programmes, genes, proteins, drugs and clinical trials, online communities, statistical data, census results, and reviews (Bizer et al, 2009). For example, the Friend Of A Friend (FOAF) project ? is a .RDF based machine readable dataset describing people. And DBLP Berlin is a RDF version of the DBLP database of University of Trier which provides bibliographic information on major computer science journals and conference proceedings, maintained by the University of Berlin. Likewise DBpedia is a data set that is composed by extracting structured content from Wikipedia. It allows users to query properties and relatignships associated with Wikipedia resources, including links to other related datasets. And openCYC is an ontology of everyday common te A catalog of the projects that are linked in the LOD 