 may be millions of variable as-
signments that are only one conflict away from a solution. Plateau search allowing side-
waysmovestoanother state withthesamescore can helplocal search finditswayoffthis
plateau. This wandering on the plateau can be directed with tabu search: keeping a small
listofrecentlyvisitedstatesandforbidding thealgorithm toreturntothosestates. Simulated
annealing canalsobeusedtoescapefromplateaux.
CONSTRAINT Anothertechnique,calledconstraintweighting,canhelpconcentratethesearchonthe
WEIGHTING
important constraints. Eachconstraint isgivenanumeric weight, W ,initially all1. Ateach
i
stepofthesearch,thealgorithmchoosesavariable value pairtochangethatwillresultinthe
lowesttotalweightofallviolatedconstraints. Theweightsarethenadjustedbyincrementing
theweightofeachconstraintthatisviolatedbythecurrentassignment. Thishastwobenefits:
it adds topography to plateaux, making sure that it is possible to improve from the current
state,anditalso,overtime,addsweighttotheconstraints thatareprovingdifficulttosolve.
Another advantage of local search is that it can be used in an online setting when the
problem changes. This is particularly important in scheduling problems. A week s airline
schedule may involve thousands of flights and tens of thousands of personnel assignments,
butbadweatheratoneairportcanrenderthescheduleinfeasible. Wewouldliketorepairthe
schedule with a minimum number of changes. This can be easily done with a local search
algorithm starting from the current schedule. A backtracking search with the new set of
constraints usually requires much more time and might find a solution with many changes
fromthecurrentschedule.
6.5 THE STRUCTURE OF PROBLEMS
In this section, we examine ways in which the structure of the problem, as represented by
theconstraint graph, can beused tofindsolutions quickly. Mostofthe approaches herealso
applytootherproblemsbesides CS Ps,suchasprobabilistic reasoning. Afterall,theonlyway
wecan possibly hope todeal withthe real