 be called board games. These games could in principle be represented and analysed by constructing the payoff table, but in practice, such a process would be cumbersome and computationally demanding. We will focus instead on more efficient strategies to play board games. 8.1 Board Games The games we focus on primarily in this chapter are classified as two person, zero sum, complete information, alternate move, and deterministic games. Two person games have exactly two players. In zero sum games, the total payoff is zero. One player's gain is the other player s loss. One wins, the other loses. In complete information games, both the players have access to all the information. That is, both can see the board, and thus know the options the other player has. In alternate move games, the players take turns to make their moves. In deterministic games, there is no element of chance in the moves that one can make. All the above properties can be relaxed to produce more complex multi-agent environments. Adding a dice to a board game introduces an element of chance. The player cannot deterministically make a move. The essential feature of most card games is that they are multiple-player incomplete information games. Cards of other players are hidden, but the pack is known and finite. So a player does not know the options available to other players, but the possible options are bounded by knowledge of the cards that have not yet been played. In games like contract bridge, players draw inferences from the known information to glean as much additional information as possible. The game has four players, with partnerships of two each, and the strategy also involves communication of information between partners. Since this information is also available to opponents, the tactics often involve misinformation and deception too. Army generals fighting wars operate similarly with genuinely incomplete information. They also attempt to glean information about the resources and options of 