S) u(cid:12) and a worst possible
NORMALIZED catastrophe at U(S) u . Normalizedutilitiesuseascalewithu 0andu(cid:12) 1.
UTILITIES
Given a utility scale between u(cid:12) and u , we can assess the utility of any particular
STANDARDLOTTERY
prize S byaskingtheagenttochoosebetween S andastandardlottery p,u(cid:12); (1 p),u .
Theprobability pisadjusteduntiltheagentisindifferentbetween S andthestandardlottery.
Assumingnormalizedutilities,theutilityof S isgivenbyp. Oncethisisdoneforeachprize,
theutilitiesforalllotteriesinvolving thoseprizesaredetermined.
In medical, transportation, and environmental decision problems, among others, peo-
ple slivesareatstake. Insuchcases,u isthevalueassignedtoimmediatedeath(orperhaps
many deaths). Although nobody feels comfortable withputting avalue on human life, itisa
fact that tradeoffs are made all the time. Aircraft are given a complete overhaul at intervals
determined by trips and miles flown, rather than after every trip. Cars are manufactured in
a way that trades off costs against accident survival rates. Paradoxically, a refusal to put a
monetary value on life means that life is often undervalued. Ross Shachter relates an ex-
perience with a government agency that commissioned a study on removing asbestos from
schools. Thedecisionanalystsperformingthestudyassumedaparticulardollarvalueforthe
life of a school-age child, and argued that the rational choice under that assumption was to
remove the asbestos. The agency, morally outraged at the idea of setting the value of a life,
rejectedthereportoutofhand. Itthendecidedagainstasbestosremoval implicitlyasserting
alowervalueforthelifeofachildthanthatassigned bytheanalysts.
616 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
Some attempts have been made to find out the value that people place on their own
lives. One common currency used in medical and safety analysis is the micromort, a
MICROMORT
one in a million chance of death. If you ask people how much they would pay to avoid a
risk for example, t