a winter s day. Interrogator: Would you say Mr. Pickwick reminded you of Christmas? A: In a way. What is Artificial Intelligence? 21 Interrogator: Yet Christmas is a winter s day, and 1 do not think Mr, Pickwick would mind the - comparison. A I don t think you re serious. By a winter s day one means a typical winter s day, rather than a special one like Christmas. It will be a long time before a computer passes the Turing test. Some people believe none ever will. But suppose we are willing to settle for less than a complete imitation of a person. Can we measure the achievement of AI in more restricted domains? Often the answer to this question is yes. Sometimes it is possible to get a fairly precise measure of the achievement of a program. For example, a program can acquire a chess rating in the same way as a human player. The rating is based on the ratings of players whom the program can beat. Already programs have acquired chess ratings higher than the vast majority of human players. For other problem domains, a ess precise measure of a program s achievement is possible. For example, DENDRAL is a program that analyzes organic compounds to determine their structure. It is hard to gel a precise measure of DENDRAL s level of achievement compared to human chemists, but it has produced analyses that have been published as original research results. Thus it is certainly performing competently. In other technical domains, it is possible to compare the time it takes for a program to complete a task to the time required by a person to do the same thing. For example, there are several programs in use by computer companies to configure particular systems to customers needs (of which the pioneer was a program called R1). These programs typically require minutes to perform tasks that previously required hours of a skilled engineer s time. Such programs are usually evaluated by looking at the bottom line whether they save (or make) money. For many everyday tasks, though, it may