ength. position of mass Center, number of holes, minimum bounding rectangle, distance from origin, and orientation. These, and region relationships are described in a data structure known as a patchery data structure. Elements in the data network are essentially matched against model knowledge described in the form of production rules. The rule actions then effectively - construct the scene description. A plan is a representation of the crude structure of the input scene given as object labels and their degree of correctness. It is generated by the bottom-up process to provide clues concerning which knowledge can be applied to different parts of the scene. - Knowledge of the task world is represented by sets of production rules. One set 'is used in the bottom-up process and the other in the top-down process. Each rule in the bottom-up set has a fuzzy predicate which describes properties of relations 22M Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 between objects. The rules also have weights which indicate the level of uncertainty of the knowledge. Each rule in the top-down set is a condition-action pair, where the condition is a fuzzy predicate which examines the Situation of the data base. The action pert includes operations to construct the scene descntion. An agenda manages the activation of production rules and schedules the executable actions. Examples of a typical property rule and a relation rule are as follows: I(GEN (or (blue sk) (gray sk)) (1.0 . 0.2)) (sk)j IGEN (and (linear-boundary bl sk) (not (position up b1'ski)) 0.0 .0.5) for sky) (b1 sk)) The first rule is a property rule about the color of the sky (blue or gray). The second rule is a relation rule about the boundary between a building and the sky. The boundary between the two has a lot of linear parts, and the building is not on the upper side of that boundary. The final product of the analyzer is, of course, a description of the scene. This is constructed as a hierarchical network as illustrated in Figure