odelofdrivablesurfacetocorrespondtograssaswellasroad.
Probabilistictechniquesoutperformotherapproachesinmanyhardperceptualproblemssuch
aslocalizationandmapping. However,statisticaltechniquesaresometimestoocumbersome,
and simplersolutions maybejust as effective inpractice. Tohelp decide whichapproach to
take,experience workingwithrealphysical robotsisyourbestteacher.
25.3.3 Machinelearning inrobot perception
Machine learning plays an important role in robot perception. This is particularly the case
when the best internal representation is not known. One common approach is to map high-
dimensionalsensorstreamsintolower-dimensionalspacesusingunsupervisedmachinelearn-
LOW-DIMENSIONAL ing methods (see Chapter 18). Such an approach is called low-dimensional embedding.
EMBEDDING
Machine learning makes it possible to learn sensor and motion models from data, while si-
multaneously discovering asuitableinternal representations.
Another machine learning technique enables robots to continuously adapt to broad
changes in sensor measurements. Picture yourself walking from a sun-lit space into a dark
neon-litroom. Clearlythingsaredarkerinside. Butthechangeoflightsourcealsoaffectsall
the colors: Neon light has a stronger component of green light than sunlight. Yet somehow
weseem not to notice the change. If wewalk together with people into a neon-lit room, we
don t think that suddenly theirfaces turned green. Ourperception quickly adapts tothe new
lighting conditions, andourbrainignores thedifferences.
Adaptive perception techniques enable robots to adjust to such changes. One example
is shown in Figure 25.13, taken from the autonomous driving domain. Here an unmanned
ground vehicle adapts its classifier of the concept drivable surface. How does this work?
The robot uses a laser to provide classification for a small area right in front of the robot.
When this area is found to be flat in the laser range scan, it is used as a positive training
examplefortheconcept drivable surface. 