 about possible worlds. Whereas logical
assertions saywhichpossible worldsarestrictly ruled out (allthoseinwhichtheassertion is
false), probabilistic assertions talkabouthowprobable thevariousworldsare. Inprobability
theory, the set of all possible worlds is called the sample space. The possible worlds are
SAMPLESPACE
mutually exclusive and exhaustive two possible worlds cannot both be the case, and one
possible world must be the case. For example, if we are about to roll two (distinguishable)
dice, there are 36 possible worlds to consider: (1,1), (1,2), ..., (6,6). The Greek letter (uppercase omega) is used to refer to the sample space, and (lowercase omega) refers to
elementsofthespace, thatis,particularpossible worlds.
Afullyspecifiedprobabilitymodelassociatesanumericalprobability P( )witheach
PROBABILITYMODEL
possible world.1 The basic axioms of probability theory say that every possible world has a
probability between0and1andthatthetotalprobability ofthesetofpossible worldsis1:
(cid:12)
0 P( ) 1forevery and P( ) 1. (13.1) Forexample, if we assume that each die is fair and the rolls don t interfere with each other,
then each of the possible worlds (1,1), (1,2), ..., (6,6) has probability 1 36. On the other
hand,ifthediceconspiretoproducethesamenumber,thentheworlds(1,1),(2,2),(3,3),etc.,
mighthavehigherprobabilities, leaving theotherswithlowerprobabilities.
Probabilisticassertionsandqueriesarenotusuallyabout particularpossibleworlds,but
about setsofthem. Forexample, wemightbeinterested inthe cases wherethetwodice add
up to 11, the cases where doubles are rolled, and so on. In probability theory, these sets are
called events a term already used extensively in Chapter 12for adifferent concept. In AI,
EVENT
the sets are always described by propositions in a formal language. (One such language is
described in Section 13.2.2.) Foreach proposition, the corresponding set contains just those
possibleworldsinwhichthepropositionholds. Theprobabilityassociatedwithapropositi