insemantic networks
implements the overriding of defaults in a simple and natural way. In this section, we study
defaults more generally, with a view toward understanding the semantics of defaults rather
thanjustproviding aprocedural mechanism.
12.6.1 Circumscription anddefault logic
Wehaveseentwoexamplesofreasoningprocessesthatviolatethemonotonicitypropertyof
logic that was proved in Chapter 7.8 In this chapter we saw that a property inherited by all
membersofacategory inasemanticnetworkcouldbeoverridden bymorespecificinforma-
tionforasubcategory. In Section 9.4.5,wesawthat undertheclosed-world assumption, ifa
proposition isnotmentioned in KB then KB ,but KB .
Simple introspection suggests that these failures of monotonicity are widespread in
commonsense reasoning. It seems that humans often jump to conclusions. For example,
when one sees a car parked on the street, one is normally willing to believe that it has four
wheels even though only three are visible. Now, probability theory can certainly provide a
conclusion thatthefourth wheelexists withhighprobability, yet,formostpeople, thepossi-
bility of the car s not having four wheels does not arise unless some new evidence presents
itself. Thus, it seems that the four-wheel conclusion is reached by default, in the absence of
anyreason todoubt it. Ifnewevidence arrives forexample, ifonesees theownercarrying
awheelandnoticesthatthecarisjackedup thentheconclusioncanberetracted. Thiskind
of reasoning is said to exhibit nonmonotonicity, because the set of beliefs does not grow
NONMONOTONICITY
NONMONOTONIC monotonically over time as new evidence arrives. Nonmonotonic logics have been devised
LOGIC
withmodifiednotionsoftruthandentailmentinordertocapturesuchbehavior. Wewilllook
attwosuchlogicsthathavebeenstudied extensively: circumscription anddefaultlogic.
8 Recallthatmonotonicityrequiresallentailedsentencestoremainentailedafternewsentencesareaddedtothe
KB.Thatis,if KB then KB .
Section12.6. Reasoning with Default Informa