at the 1994 world championship
ended prematurely when Tinsley had to withdraw forhealth reasons. CHINOOK became the
official world champion. Schaeffer kept on building on his database of endgames, and in
2007 solved checkers(Schaeffer etal.,2007;Schaeffer,2008). Thishadbeenpredictedby
Richard Bellman (1965). In the paper that introduced the dynamic programming approach
to retrograde analysis, he wrote, In checkers, the number of possible moves in any given
situation is so small that we can confidently expect a complete digital computer solution to
the problem of optimal play in this game. Bellman did not, however, fully appreciate the
size of the checkers game tree. There are about 500 quadrillion positions. After 18 years
of computation on a cluster of 50 or more machines, Jonathan Schaeffer s team completed
an endgame table forall checkers positions with 10 orfewerpieces: over39 trillion entries.
From there, they were able to do forward alpha beta search to derive a policy that proves
that checkers is in fact a draw with best play by both sides. Note that this is an application
of bidirectional search (Section 3.4.6). Building an endgame table forall ofcheckers would
be impractical: it would require a billion gigabytes of storage. Searching without any table
wouldalsobeimpractical: thesearch treehasabout 847 positions, andwouldtakethousands
of years to search with today s technology. Only a combination of clever search, endgame
data,andadropinthepriceofprocessors andmemorycouldsolvecheckers. Thus,checkers
joins Qubic (Patashnik, 1980), Connect Four(Allis, 1988), and Nine-Men s Morris (Gasser,
1998)asgamesthathavebeensolvedbycomputeranalysis.
Backgammon,agameofchance,wasanalyzed mathematically by Gerolamo Cardano
(1663), but only taken up for computer play in the late 1970s, first with the BKG pro-
gram (Berliner, 1980b); it used a complex, manually constructed evaluation function and
searchedonlytodepth1. Itwasthefirstprogramtodefeatahumanworldchampionatama-
jorcl