nteracting with such systems. 524 Artificial Intelligence SACS NOIR 25.15.2 Creating Dialogues Dialogues provide the visual effect and give a better aesthetic appearance to inputs and outputs. Though the same does not have anything to do with AI, it has been included here to encourage readers to write lively programs in the otherwise monotonously typed drab environment. The following discussion is solely LPA WIN-PROLOG specific. We discuss the creation and use of a simple dialog using the WIN-PROLOG Dialog Editor plug-in. A complete discussion of the editor can be found in the documentation available online in the LPA website. After invoking WIN-PROLOG, click on Run and then the Dialog Editor option. Three windows pop up; the Dialog Tool Box, the Dialog window and the Dialog Code window. Move the cursor over each of the control icons on the Tool box to familiarize yourself with their names. Try the following sequence to build a simple dialog. (a) Click on the static/label tool on the Dialog Tools Window and move the mouse pointer to the New Dialog Window. With the left button pressed draw a rectangle on this window. Double click on this static label and you will be presented a bigger Style window with numerous options, most of which conform to the Windows programming environment. What appears is shown in Fig, 25.2. a Diakig Gade: euparl Fig. 25.2 The Dialog Editor Change the caption to Enter your name below , and click the ss_center button. The former will change the text (Static/) that appears in the static control while the latter will place the text in the centre. Note a number that appears against ID. This acts as the control s handle. Change this to 1 and click OK. What you will see is shown as Fig. 25.3. PROLOG - The Natural Language of Artificial Intelligence 525 ESRF c S ERNE 2 * BR BRDL Fig. 25.3 The Static Control Now add an Edit control in a similar manner below the static control. Double click and the same kind of window that appeared before will pop up.