e following is then entailed, BColour(a, blue) BColour(b, green), BColour(a, green) BColour(b, blue), As discussed in Section 17.1.4, this knowledge base has two extensions. One in which block a is blue, and the other in which block a is green. The basic TMS can store only one of these extensions. If it is given the assumption Colour(a, blue), it can store Colour(b, green) if the reasoner derives it. It will also store any other statements that follow. However, if an assumption Colour(a, green) is added, then a contradiction could be triggered, and the TMS would instruct the reasoner to withdraw one of the assumptions, and any consequents that follow. The basic TMS is unable to handle the two contradictory assumptions together. If it needs to switch from one set of assumptions to another, it has to systematically retract the first set, invoking all the consistency algorithms alongside, and introduce the new set. In doing so, it may have to give up on stored inference patterns that are common between the different sets, and end up making those inferences repeatedly. An Assumption Based Truth Maintenance System (ATMS) (de Kleer, 1986; 1986a; 1986b) can keep multiple sets of possibly contradictory assumptions in its memory. As a consequence, it can simultaneously deal with different sets of beliefs that may be mutually contradictory, and investigate their consequences? . The ATMS refers to each set of assumptions as an environment, and the set of statements that are entailed by the environment and other facts as the context. In Model Based Diagnosis (Section 17.3), we have seen a form of reasoning in which logical inferences have to be made in different contexts under different sets of assumptions or environments. Often the different contexts have many common inferences and the reasoning system could benefit from sharing the work done. Also, the reasoner may need to switch back and forth between contexts and would benefit tremendously if all the inferences made at any 