 =gt(5, y) V rgtly, y) V ssuccly, 2) (a) What went wrong? (b) What needs to be added to the resolution procedure to make sure that this does not happen? 128 10. il. 13. Artificial Intelligence The answer to the last problem suggests that the unification procedure could be simplified by omitting the check that prevents x and f(x) from being unified together (the occur check). This should be possible since no two clauses will ever share variables. If x occurs in one, f(x) cannot occur in another. But suppose the unification procedure is given the following two clauses (in the notation of Section 5.4.4): PS) p(f(a),a) Trace the execution of the procedure. What does this example show about the need for the occur check? What is wrong with the following argument {Henle, 1965]? e Men are widely distributed over the earth. e Socrates is a man. = Therefore, Socrates is widely distributed over the earth. How should the facts represented by these sentences be represented in logic so that this problem does not arise? . Consider all the facts about baseball that are represented in the slot-and-filler structure of Fig. 4.5. Represent those same facts as a set of assertions in predicate logic. Show how the inferences that were derived from that knowledge in Section 4.2 can be derived using logical deduction. What problems would be encountered in attempting to represent the following statements in predicate logic? It should be possible to deduce the final statement from the others. John only likes to see French movies. It s safe to assume a movie is American unless explicitly told otherwise. The Playhouse rarely shows foreign films. People don t do things that will cause them to be in situations that they don t like. John doesn t go to the Playhouse very often. vod ce CHAPTER 6 REPRESENTING KNOWLEDGE USING RULES Ta be useful, a system has to do more than just correctly perform some task, John Mc Dermott, Al Researcher In this chapter, we discuss the use of rules to encode knowledge