. Of
course, we can t have the probability depend on every word in the tree, because we won t
have enough training data to estimate all those probabilities. Itisuseful tointroduce the no-
tion of the head of a phrase the most important word. Thus, eat is the head of the VP
HEAD eat a banana and banana is the head of the NP a banana. Weuse the notation VP(v)
to denote a phrase with category VP whose head word is v. We say that the category VP
AUGMENTED is augmented with the head variable v. Here is an augmented grammar that describes the
GRAMMAR
verb object relation:
VP(v) Verb(v) NP(n) P (v,n) 1
VP(v) Verb(v) P (v) 2
NP(n) Article(a) Adjs(j) Noun(n) P (n,a) 3
Noun(banana) banana p n
... ...
Herethe probability P (v,n)depends on thehead words v and n. Wewould set this proba-
1
bilitytoberelativelyhighwhenv is eat andnis banana, andlowwhennis bandanna. 898 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
Note that since we are considering only heads, the distinction between eat a banana and eat a rancid banana will not be caught by these probabilities. Another issue with this ap-
proachisthat,inavocabulary with,say,20,000nounsand5,000verbs,P needs100million
1
probability estimates. Onlyafewpercentofthesecancomefromacorpus;therestwillhave
to come from smoothing (see Section 22.1.2). For example, we can estimate P (v,n) for a
1
(v,n) pair that we have not seen often (or at all) by backing off to a model that depends
onlyonv. Theseobjectlessprobabilities arestillveryuseful;theycancapturethedistinction
betweenatransitiveverblike eat whichwillhaveahighvaluefor P andalowvaluefor
1
P and an intransitive verb like sleep, which will have the reverse. It is quite feasible to
2
learntheseprobabilities fromatreebank.
23.3.2 Formaldefinition ofaugmented grammarrules
Augmented rules arecomplicated, sowewillgive them aformaldefinition byshowing how
anaugmented rulecanbetranslated intoalogical sentence. Thesentence willhavetheform
DEFINITECLAUSE ofadefiniteclause(seepage256),sotheresult