xed strategy for two-finger Morra might be 0.5:one;0.5:two . A strategy profile is an assignment of a strategy to each player; given
STRATEGYPROFILE
thestrategyprofile,thegame soutcomeisanumericvalueforeachplayer.
OUTCOME
668 Chapter 17. Making Complex Decisions
Asolutiontoagameisastrategyprofileinwhicheachplayeradoptsarationalstrategy.
SOLUTION
We will see that the most important issue in game theory is to define what rational means
when each agent chooses only part of the strategy profile that determines the outcome. It is
important to realize that outcomes are actual results of playing a game, while solutions are
theoretical constructs used to analyze a game. We will see that some games have a solution
only in mixed strategies. But that does not mean that a player must literally be adopting a
mixedstrategytoberational.
Consider the following story: Two alleged burglars, Alice and Bob, are caught red-
handednearthesceneofaburglary andareinterrogated separately. Aprosecutorofferseach
a deal: if you testify against your partner as the leader of a burglary ring, you ll go free for
being thecooperative one, while yourpartner willserve 10 years inprison. However, if you
both testify against each other, you ll both get5years. Alice and Bobalsoknow that ifboth
refuse to testify they will serve only 1 year each for the lesser charge of possessing stolen
PRISONER S property. Now Alice and Bob face the so-called prisoner s dilemma: should they testify
DILEMMA
or refuse? Being rational agents, Alice and Bob each want to maximize their own expected
utility. Let sassumethat Aliceiscallouslyunconcernedaboutherpartner sfate,soherutility
decreases in proportion to the number of years she will spend in prison, regardless of what
happensto Bob. Bobfeelsexactlythesameway. Tohelpreacharational decision, theyboth
construct thefollowingpayoffmatrix:
Alice:testify Alice:refuse
Bob:testify A 5,B 5 A 10,B 0
Bob:refuse A 0,B 10 A 1,B 1
Alice analyzes the payoff matrix as follows: Suppose B