s. This approach has been echoed often in artificial intelligence. For example, chess playing machines do not make decisions the way human players do. A creation of doubtful veracity was the chess automaton, the Turk, created by the Hungarian baron Wolfgang von Kempelen (1734-1804). The contraption was demonstrated in many courts in Europe with great success. The automaton played good chess, but that was because there was a diminutive man inside the contraption. Fiction took the upper hand once again and Mary Shelley (17971851), an acquaintance of Lord Byron (1788-1824), wrote the classic horror novel Frankenstein, in which the character Dr Frankenstein, creates a humanoid which turns into a monster. The word robot, which means worker in Czech, first appeared in a play called Rossum s Universal Robots (RUR) by Karel Capek (1921) (1890-1938); apparently on the suggestion of his brother Josef (Levy, 2008). It is derived from the word robota meaning forced labour, and the robots in Capek s play were supposed to be machines resembling humans in appearance and meant to do their master s bidding. The Frankenstein theme was repeated in Capek s play in which the robots rebel and destroy the human race. The prospect of human creations running haywire has long haunted many people. Isaac Asimov who took up the baton of writing about (fictional) artificial creatures, formulated the three laws of robotics in which he said the following: A robot cannot injure a human being, or through inaction allow a human being to come to harm. A robot must obey any orders given to it by human beings, except where such orders would conflict with the First Law. A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law. These were laws in the civic sense that Asimov said should be hardwired into the brains of robots. A zeroeth law was subsequently added: A robot may not injure humanity, or, by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm. But by 