rks in pure PROLOG because, if we restrict the rest of our language to Hom clauses, we have a decidable theory. So failure to prove something means that it is not entailed by our theory. If, on the other hand, we start with full first-order predicate logic as our base language, we have no such guarantee. So, as a practical matter, it may be necessary to define consistency on some heuristic basis, such as failure to prove inconsistency within some fixed level of effort. A second problem that arises in this approach (and others, as we explain below) is what to do when multiple nonmonotonic statements, taken alone, suggest ways of augmenting our knowledge that if taken together would be inconsistent. For example, consider the following set of assertions: Vx: Republican(x) /\ M 7Pacifist(x) > -Pacifist(x) Vx: Quaker(x) /\ M Pacifist(x) Pacifist(x) Republican(Dick) Quakev{ Dick) The definition of NML that we have given supports two distinct ways of augmenting this knowledge base. In one, we first apply the first assertion, which allows us to conclude Pacifist(Dick). Having done that, the second assertion cannot apply, since it is not consistent to assume Pacifist(Dick). The other thing we could do, however, is apply the second assertion first. This results in the conclusion Pacifist(Dick), which prevents the first one from applying. So what conclusion does the theory actually support? The answer is that NML defines the set of theorems that can be derived from a set of wff s A to be the intersection of the sets of theorems that result from the various ways in which the wff s of A might be combined. So, in our example, no conclusion about Dick s pacifism can be derived. This theory thus takes a very conservative approach to theoremhood. , It is worth pointing out here that although assertions such as the ones we used to reason about Dick s pacifism look like rules, they are, in this theory, just ordinary wff s which can be manipulated by the standard rules for combining lo