l language text. Developed by Douglas Appeit (1985), KAMP simulates the behavior of an expert robot named Rob (a terminal) assisting John (a person) in the disassembly and repair of air compressors. KAMP uses a planner and a data base of knowledge in (modal) logical form. The knowledge includes domain knowledge, world knowledge, linguistic knowledge, and knowledge about the hearer. A description of actions and action summaries are available to the planner. Given a goal, the planner uses heuristics to build and refine a plan in the form of a procedural network. Other procedures act as critics of the plans and help to refine them If a plan is completed, a deduction system is used to prove that the sequence of actions do, in fact, achieve the goal. If the plan fails, the planner must do further searching for a sequence of actions that will work. A completed plan states the knowledge and intentions of the agent, the robot Sec. 12.6 Natural Language Generation 261 Rob. This is the first step in producing the output text. The process can be summarized as follows. Suppose KAMP has determined the immediate goal to be the removal of the compressor pump from the platform. Truel'Attached)pump platform)) KAMP first formulates and refines a plan that John adopt Rob's plan to remove the pump from the platform. The first part of Rob's plan suggests a request for John to remove the pump leading to the expression INTENDS) john, REMOVE(pump platform)) After axioms are used to prove that actions in the initial summary plan are successful, the request is expanded to include details for the pump removal. Rob decides that John will know he is near the platform and that he knows where the toolbox is located. but that he does not know what tool to use. Rob, therefore, determines that John will not need to be told about the platform, but that he must be informed, with an imperative statement, to remove the pump with a wrench in the toolbox. INTENDS)john. REMOVE(purnp platform)) LOCATION(joh