s to go first to Vaslui a step that is actually farther from the goal according to
the heuristic and then to continue to Urziceni, Bucharest, and Fagaras. The algorithm will
never find this solution, however, because expanding Neamt puts Iasi back into the frontier,
Iasiiscloserto Fagarasthan Vasluiis,andso Iasiwillbeexpanded again, leading toaninfi-
niteloop. (Thegraphsearchversion iscompleteinfinitespaces,butnotininfiniteones.) The
worst-casetimeandspacecomplexityforthetreeversionis O(bm),wheremisthemaximum
depth of the search space. With a good heuristic function, however, the complexity can be
reducedsubstantially. Theamountofthereductiondepends ontheparticularproblemandon
thequalityoftheheuristic.
3.5.2 A search: Minimizing the totalestimated solutioncost The most widely known form of best-first search is called A search (pronounced A-star
A SEARCH
search ). Itevaluatesnodesbycombiningg(n),thecosttoreachthenode,andh(n),thecost
togetfromthenodetothegoal:
f(n) g(n) h(n).
Since g(n) gives the path cost from the start node to node n, and h(n) is the estimated cost
ofthecheapest pathfrom ntothegoal,wehave
f(n) estimatedcostofthecheapest solution through n.
Thus, if we are trying to find the cheapest solution, a reasonable thing to try first is the
node with the lowest value of g(n) h(n). It turns out that this strategy is more than just reasonable: providedthattheheuristicfunction h(n)satisfiescertainconditions, A searchis
both complete and optimal. The algorithm is identical to UNIFORM-COST-SEARCH except that A usesg hinsteadofg.
94 Chapter 3. Solving Problemsby Searching
(a) The initial state Arad
366
(b) After expanding Arad Arad
Sibiu Timisoara Zerind
253 329 374
(c) After expanding Sibiu Arad
Sibiu Timisoara Zerind
329 374
Arad Fagaras Oradea Rimnicu Vilcea
366 176 380 193
(d) After expanding Fagaras Arad
Sibiu Timisoara Zerind
329 374
Arad Fagaras Oradea Rimnicu Vilcea
366 380 193
Sibiu Bucharest
253 0
Figure3.23 Stages in a greedybest-first tree search for Bu