ames that have evinced interest from enthusiasts and Al aficionados. A special issue of the journal Artificial Intelligence (volume 134, numbers 1-2, 2002) gives a wider selection. We have only looked at a few of them to explore the general principles that can be used to implement them. The interested reader will find many avenues for exciting challenges. e Exercises 1. The game Undercut consists of a sequence of moves in which two players simultaneously choose an integer between one and five, both inclusive. Each person gets the number she chooses as her score for that round, except when the opponent has chosen a number smaller than hers by one, in which case the opponent gets both the numbers. For example, if A chooses 5 and B chooses 3 then A gets 5 and be gets 3. But if A chooses 5 and B chooses 4, A gets nothing and B gets 9. Devise a strategy to play the game. For variations on the game, see (Hofstadter, 1996). 2. There are two companies producing a product of no intrinsic value and where sales are proportional to advertising. Advertising, however, costs money and cuts into the profits. Another way of increasing sales is by reducing the selling price, though this may lead to a price war. Model the price war between the two companies as a two-person game. . Let G be the set of all finite games. We define the game gnew as follows. Player-1 selects a game, say game-i from the set G. Player-2 makes the first move in game-i, and they play the game till completion. Is gnew a finite game? 4. Modify the value of only one leaf node to convert the game in Figure 8.6 to one where the minimax value is a draw (D). . What is the size of the game tree for Noughts and Crosses? If you know the strategy that an opponent is employing, you can predict all her moves accurately. Is the preceding statement true or false, in context of the game of chess? Justify your answer. 7. Modify the algorithm given in Figure 8.17 to keep track of depth. Write the terminal(node) function. . Modi