stracted into three classes: better (only a pair of kings or a pair of aces), same (pair of
queens) or worse (everything else). However, this abstraction might be too coarse. A better
abstraction would divide worse into, say, medium pair (nines through jacks), low pair, and
nopair. Theseexamples areabstractions ofstates; itisalso possible toabstract actions. For
example,instead ofhavingabetactionforeachintegerfrom 1to1000,wecouldrestrict the
bets to 100, 101, 102 and 103. Or we could cut out one of the rounds of betting altogether.
We can also abstract over chance nodes, by considering only a subset of the possible deals.
Thisisequivalenttotherollouttechniqueusedin Goprograms. Puttingalltheseabstractions
together, we can reduce the 1018 states of poker to 107 states, a size that can be solved with
currenttechniques.
Pokerprograms basedonthisapproach caneasily defeatnoviceandsomeexperienced
human players, but are not yet at the level of master players. Part of the problem is that
thesolution theseprograms approximate the equilibrium solution is optimalonlyagainst
an opponent who also plays the equilibrium strategy. Against fallible human players it is
important to be able to exploit an opponent s deviation from the equilibrium strategy. As
678 Chapter 17. Making Complex Decisions
Gautam Rao(aka The Count ),theworld sleadingonlinepokerplayer,said(Billings etal.,
2003), You have a very strong program. Once you add opponent modeling to it, it will kill
everyone. However,goodmodelsofhumanfallability remainelusive.
Inasense,extensivegameformistheoneofthemostcompleterepresentationswehave
seen so far: it can handle partially observable, multiagent, stochastic, sequential, dynamic
environments most of the hard cases from the list of environment properties on page 42.
However,therearetwolimitationsofgametheory. First,itdoesnotdealwellwithcontinuous
states and actions (although there have been some extensions to the continuous case; for
COURNOT example,thetheoryof Cournotcompe