an have a strong effect on perfoi-manc, much the same as it does for humans. Training may consist of randomly selected instances or examples that have been carefullyselected and ordered for presentation. The instances may be positive examples of some concept or task being learned, they may be negative, or they may be a mixture of both positive and negative. The instances may be well focused using only relevant informatipn, or they may contain a variety of facts and details including irrelevant data. Many forms of learning can be characterized as a search through a space of possible hypotheses or solutions (Mitchell, 1982). To make learning more efficient, it is necessary to constrain this search process or reduce the search space. One method of achieving this is through the use of background knowledge which can be used to Constrain the search space or exercise control operations which limit the search process. We will see several examples of this in the next three chapters. Feedback is essential to the learner component since otherwise it would never know if the knowledge structures in the knowledge base were improving or if they were adequate for the performance of the given tasks. The feedback may be a simple yes or no type of evaluation, or it may contain more useful information describing why a particular action was good or bad. Also, the feedback may he Completely reliable, providing an accurate assessment of the performance or it may contain noise; that is, the feedback may actually be incorrect some of the time. Intuitively, the feedback must be accurate more than SO?C of the time; otherwise the system would never learn. If the feedback is always reliable and carries useful information, the learner should be able to build up a useful corpus of knowledge quickly. On the other hand, if the feedback is noisy or unreliable, the learning process may be very slow and the resultant knowledge incorrect. Finally, the learning algorithms themselves determine to a large