l relation has-part (Pee-Wee-Reese, Nose) 9.1.1 Intersection Search One of the early ways that semantic nets were used was to find relationships among objects by spreading activation out from each of two nodes and seeing where the activation met. This process is called intersection search (Quillian, 1968]. Using this process, it is possible to use the network of Fig. 9.1 to answer questions such as What is the connection between the Brooklyn Dodgers and blue? ! This kind of reasoning exploits one of the important advantages that slot-and-filler structures have over purely logical representations because it takes advantage of the entity-based organization of knowledge that slot-and-fiiler representations provide. To answer more structured questions, however, requires networks that are themselves more highly structured. In the next few sections we expand and refine our notion of a network in order to support more sophisticated reasoning. 9.1.2 Representing Nonbinary Predicates Semantic nets are a natural way to represent relationships that would appear as ground instances of binary predicates in predicate logic. For example, some of the arcs from Fig. 9.1 could be represented in logic as isa(Person, Mammal) instance(Pee-Wee-Reese, Person) team(Pee-Wee-Reese, Brooklyn-Dodgers) uniform-color(Pee-Wee-Reese, Blue) But the knowledge expressed by predicates of other arities can also be expressed in semantic nets. We have already seen that many unary predicates in logic can be thought of as binary predicates using some very general-purpose predicates, such as isa and instance. So, for example, man(Marcus) ' Actually, to do this we need to assume that the inverses of the links we have shown also exist. 190 Artificial Intelligence ee could be rewritten as instance(Marcus, Man) thereby making it easy to represent in a semantic net. Three or more place predicates can also be converted to a binary form by creating one new object representing the entire predicate statement and the