nt is that maybe one can loosen the strong sense of focused self that we all have and try and visualise the creation of life forms as something that arises out of a bottom up process as described by Hoffemeyer (Hoffmeyer, 1994) The general principle which has made this bottom up or swarm conception of the body-mind biologically possible is the introduction of semiosis as the basic principle of life. By delegating semiotic competence to decentralised units, and ultimately to single cells, it becomes possible to ascribe intelligent behaviour to distributed systems. Stupid molecules become powerful tools as soon as they acquire semiotic quality, i.e. as soon as they are interpreted according to cellular habits. The transformation of molecules to signs opens for an unending semiogenic evolution based on semetic interaction patterns between entities at all levels. And through this evolution, the semiotic aspects of material processes gradually increase their autonomy, thereby creating an ever more sophisticated semiosphere. A semiosphere which finally had the power to create semiotic systems, such as thoughts and language, which are only in the slightest way dependent on the material world from which they were ultimately derived. 4.5 Neural Networks The discipline of biology has revealed that all life forms we see around us are colonies of cells that exist in a symbiotic equilibrium. Life exists in many forms varying from the simple organisms made up from a few cells to very complex creatures hosting hundreds of types of cells. From the simple amoeba to the human being, there is an increase in complexity of behaviour accompanied with the faculty of awareness. Somewhere along this order of increasing complexity, the notion of a self emerges and creatures like us can think about ourselves. The real wonder though is that we can have a notion at all! Creatures can somehow think about things; about the world around them; and about themselves. The notion of self is possible on