everywhere along a spectrum that ranges from tightly coupled systems in which there is a completely centralized control mechanism and a shared knowledge base to ones in which both control and knowledge are fully distributed. In fact, of course, most real distributed reasoning systems lie somewhere in the middle. This definition also includes systems that are distributed at varying levels of granularity, although we do not intend it to include systems with very fine granularity (such as connectionist systems in which the individual nodes do not perform reasoning in the same sense that we have been using the term). Parallel and Distributed Al 337 For many kinds of applications, distributed reasoning systems have significant advantages over large monolithic systems. These advantages can include: 1. An Nv System Modularity It is easier to build and maintain a collection of quasi-independent modules than one huge one. Efficiency Not all knowledge is needed for all tasks. By modularizing it, we gain the ability to focus the problem-solving system s efforts in ways that are most likely to pay off. Fast Computer Architectures As problem-solvers get more complex, they need more and more cycles. Although machines continue to get faster, the real speed-ups are beginning to come not from a single processor with a huge associated memory, but from clusters of smaller processors, each with its own memory. Distributed systems are better able to exploit such architectures. Heterogeneous Reasoning The problem-solving techniques and knowledge representation formalisms that are best for working on one part of a problem may not be the best for working on another part. Multiple Perspectives The knowledge required to solve a problem may not reside in the head of a single person. It is very difficult to get many diverse people to build a single, coherent knowledge base, and sometimes it is impossible because their models of the domain are actually inconsistent. Distributed Problems Some pr