ses where KB1 - KBL KB2 Kifi. U F, for some wif F, then KB1 K82 In other words, a first order KB system can only grow 11100onjca IIy with added knowledge. When building knowledge-based systems, it is not re&co' iable to expect that all the knowledge needed for a Set of tasks could be acquired, validated, and loaded into the system at the outset. More typically, the initial knowl'lge will be incomplete, contain redundancies, inconsistencies, and other sources oi uncertainty. Even if it were possible to assemble complete, valid knowledge initially, it probably would not remain valid forever, not in a continually changin environment. In an attempt to model real-world, commonse ,ise reasoning, researchers have proposed extensions and alternatives to traditiolv .d logics such as PL and FOPL. The extensions accommodate different forms of, uncertainty and nonmofl Ot Ofl Y. In some cases, the proposed methods have been implemented. In other cases they are still topics of research. In this and the fol Io' .ing chapter, we will examine some of the more important of these methods. We begin in the next section with a description of truth maintenance systems (TMS), systems which have been i IT4".iemented to permit a form of nonmonotonic reasoning by permitting the addition of changing (even contradictory) statements to a knowledge base. This is followed in Section 5.3 by a description of other methods which accommodate nonmonoton c reasoning through default assumptions for incomplete knowledge bases. The it ,sumptions are plausible most of the time, but may have to be retracted if other ',onflicting facts are learned. Methods to constrain the knowledge that must be cor sidered for a given problem are considered next. These methods also relate to nor ,monotonic reasoning. Seciion 5.4 gives a brief treatment of modal and temporal l gics which extend the expressive rower of classical logics to p mit repre.sentatir jus and reasoning about necessary and possible situations, temporal,