rom Figure 9.13. Do these drawings represent a trihedral object? FIGURE 9.46 A line diagram of a solid object. 9. 10. Draw line drawings of objects to illustrate all the different allowed combinations of edge labels given in Figure 9.13. Use the following edge labels to pose the constraint satisfaction problem for scene labelling. (a) (convex p, p2) (b) (concave p; p2) (c) (occluding p, po) The last one is to be interpreted as an arrow from p, to po. The vertices may be represented as a label and a list of 3 or 4 relevant points, A. (arrow Pp; P2 P3 P4) B. (fork p4 P2 P3 Pa) C. (tee py P2 P3 P4) D. (ell py P2 Ps) Choose an ordering for the CSP in Figure 9.21 and show that applying DPC and DAC makes it backtrack free. Is the same effect achieved if the two procedures are applied in the opposite order? What is the degree of consistency one needs to make the order EDCBA for the problem in Figure 9.24, backtrack free? . Show that if the constraint graph is a connected graph, then at that point of time when Adaptive Consistency processes the second variable, there is an edge connecting the second variable to the first variable. 14. Consider the following CSP problem: X X2, Xa, X3, X4 D r, b, g , r, b, s , b, g , fr, s, g ) C Cj i, j X where Sj x;, x and Rj (x; x) Trace the processing done by Adaptive Consistency for the order xo, Xo, X3, X4. Is the resulting problem backtrack free? 15. Delete any value from the domain of the variable x4 in Problem 14, and repeat the above process. Delete one more value and try it again. 16. Draw the search tree explored by Backtracking for the problem in Figure 9.33 with the ordering ABCEFDG. 17. Consider a four variable problem with X A, B, C, D and Dg n, Dg b, 9 , Dc c, m, p , and Dp o, y, v, i for some CSP. Compare the sizes of the search trees for orderings ABCD and DCBA. 18. Draw the search tree explored by the algorithm Forward Checking for the problem in Figure 9.33, and compare it with the tree in Figure 9.34. 19. Trace the execu