tical, but meaningful sentences are still accepted. The disadvantage is that no actual knowledge structures are created; so the program does not really understand. The third approach is based on the use of structures such as the frames or scripts described in Chapter 7. This approach relies more on a mapping of the input to prescribed primitives which are used to build larger knowledge structures. It depends on the use of constraints imposed by context and world knowledge to develop an understanding of the language inputs. Prestored descriptions and details for commonly occurring situations or events are recalled for use in understanding a new Situation. The stored events are then used to fill in missing details about the current scenario. We will be returning to this approach later in this chapter. Its advantage is that much of the computation required for syntactical analysis is bypassed. The disadvantage is that a substantial amount of specific, as well as general world knowledge must be prestored. The second approach is one of thq most popular approaches currently being Sec. 12.3 Grammars and Languages 231, used and is the main topic of the first part of this chapter. With this approach. knowledge structures are constructed during a syntactical and semantical analysis of the input sentences. Parsers are used to analyze individual sentences and to build structures that can be used directly or transformed into the required knowledge formats. The advantage of this approach is in the power and versatility it provides. The disadvantage is the large amount of computation required and the need for still further processing to understand the contextual meanings of more than one sentence. 12.3 GRAMMARS AND LANGUAGES A language L can be considered as 4 set of strings of finite or infinite length, where a string is constructed by concatenating basic atomic elements called symbols. The finite set v of symbols of the language is called the alphabet or vocabulary. Among all po