tecture? What type of environment (e.g., indoor, outdoor, space) is supported? e How are complex behaviors turned into sequences of low-level actions? 1s control centralized or distributed? How are numeric and symbolic representations merged? How does the architecture represent the state of the world? How quickly can the architecture react to changes in the environment? * How does the architecture decide when to plan and when to act? ? The set of points from which it is possible to reach the state in a single motion is called the state s weak pre-image. 442 Artificial Intelligence STENTS OS With these issues in mind, let s look briefly at a few existing robot architectures. CODGER [Shafer er al., 1986} is an architecture for controlling vehicles in outdoor road-following tasks. CODGER uses a blackboard structure to organize incoming perceptual data. The system's control is centralized and hierarchical all numerical data from sensors are fused in order to build up a consistent model of the world. This model is represented symbolically. CODGER has been used to build a system for ; driving the experimental NAVLAB [Shafer and Whittaker, 1989] vehicle, a commercial van that has been altered for computer contro} via electric and hydraulic servos, The NAVLAB is completely self-contained, with room for several on-board computers and researchers. Brooks 11986] describes the suibsumption architecture for building autonomous robots for indoor navigation and manipulation. Behaviors are built up from layers of simple, numeric finite-state machines. Bottom layers consist of reactive, instinctual behaviors such as obstacle avoidance and wandering. Upper layers consist of behaviors like object identification and reasoning about object motions. The various behaviors operate in a decentralized fashion, computing independently, and suppressing or informing one another. Such an organization encourages reactivity for example, high-level navigation behavior is suppressed abruptly when an