 for relating the chunked data (frames) to other chunked data (frames). One can capture the relations between two frames that are at a different level of abstraction. And one can capture the relation when one frame is a constituent of a larger frame. That is, one can capture both the abstraction hierarchy and the aggregation hierarchy show in Figure 14.1. A frame is defined by a name and a set of slot-filler pairs. Each slotfiller pair is made up of a slot (or property) name and a filler (or value). It is understood that the slot is a property of the frame, and the filler is the value of that property. (frame-name slot-name-i filler-i slot-name-2 filler-2 The value that the filler can take can be an atom, another frame, a set, or a conditional procedure. An atom is a value that stands by itself, like a name or a number. An atom may be thought of as a frame with no slots, and only a name. A set has frames as its members (the frames could be atomic frames). A procedure may be attached to a slot to facilitate and control the flow of information. The trigger condition for the procedure decides when the procedure should be executed. The sets below and to the right of the solid line in Figure 14.1 are sets of concrete objects, in the sense that they exist in the domain, either individually or as composite objects . An arrow along this dimension represents a part-of or aggregation relation, and is realized by placing the name of the constituent object (frame) in the filler slot of the composite object (frame), either individually or as a set. For example, we may represent the following, (earth-system :Planet earth :Satellite moon (blue-team :Pairs blue-team-pairl, blue-team-pair2, blue-team-pair3 (blue-team-pairl :Players georgio-belladonna, walter-avarelli We have used the notational convention of writing the slot name capitalized and prefixing it with the colon. We will also denote concrete elements (frames) in lower case letters. We expect the two constituent values of 