y exactly three living cells. These rules are applied simultaneously to the entire grid, generating a new population from an old one. The system is a cellular automaton. The rules are simple and the reader is encouraged to implement the game (or download one of the numerous implementations available on the Web). The game became extremely popular because of the surprising patterns that evolve from these simple rules. It has a number of well documented patterns which emerge from particular starting positions. Soon after publication, several interesting patterns were discovered, including the ever-evolving Rpentomino (more commonly known as F-pentomino outside the game), the self-propelling glider , and various guns which generate an endless stream of new patterns'8, all of which led to an increased interest in the game. Figure 4.21 below shows the well known Glider. The pattern on the left goes through four transformations that result in the same pattern, but shifted one step right and down in the grid. Over a period of time, it appears that the pattern is moving across the screen. wo Bodo ko FIGURE 4.21 The well known Glider in the Game of Life. By the time the above shape has gone through the transformations, it forms the same pattern shifted one step down and right. Over a period of time, it looks like the pattern is shuffling or gliding across the screen. This illusion of movement is interesting because what is happening is that different cells are dying and coming alive. In that sense, the moving pattern is more like a wave in which the carrier does not move, but the signal ? does. Grand (2001) gives another interesting example of an illusion of being. Some types of clouds that seem to hang still over a mountain range, are in fact physically moving moisture particles that condense and become visible only when passing over the mountain range, and then evaporate again, giving us the illusion of a stationary (orographic) cloud. Karl Sims demonstrated that one could 