hms are indeed independent of the language they can be implemented in. While someone might like to use a language like Lisp or Haskell, other readers might prefer C, C , Python or Java. We leave the choice to the user. A third reason, as appreciated by a reviewer, is that this allows the instructor to specify the algorithm with just enough detail, and actually get the students to learn by doing the implementation. Many of these algorithms have been implemented by students at IIT Madras over the years as part of course assignments. Perhaps we can use some of those programs to seed a Wiki site for algorithms in which readers can contribute implementations in different flavours. Do look out on the book webpage for a link. Feedback from the readers is welcome at AFCA cse.iitm.ac.in Deepak Khemani Publisher s Note Do you have any further request or a suggestion? We are always open to new ideas (the best ones come from you!). You may send your comments to tmh.csefeedback gmail.com Acknowledgements This book is a retelling in my words the story of artificial intelligence with which have been involved with as a researcher and as a teacher at IIT Madras. First and foremost, am indebted to all the authors of many books and research papers whose work this book draws upon. And what has been written owes itself to the society of thinkers who have imagined and conjured up in symbolic terms the world of the mind: Thinking about thinking. There are far too many to whom am indebted for the appreciation and passion have developed for the field of artificial intelligence. In the following lines, only name a few who have in some direct way contributed to the book. Every batch have taught here has had some brilliant students who have made teaching the subject a joy. am grateful that they were in my class. The ever-helpful librarian in our department, R Balasundaram, helped in many ways including procuring books speedily. A host of people have provided reviews and feedback on the manuscr