d like is a way to combine the advantages ot both of these methods. In Section 3.3 we will talk about one way of doing this when we have some additional! information. Later, in Section 12.5, we wil! describe an uninformed way of doing so. For the water jug problem, most contro] strategies that cause motion and are systematic will lead to an answer. The problem is simple. But this is not always the case. In order to solve some problems during our lifetime, we must also demand a control structure that is efficient. Consider the following problem. The Traveling Salesman Problem: A salesman has a list of cities, each of which he must visit exactly once. There are direct roads between each pair of cities on the list. Find the route the salesman should follow for the shortest possible round trip that both starts and finishes at any one of the cities. A simple, motion-causing and systematic control structure could, in principle, solve this problem. It would simply explore all possible paths in the tree and return the one with the shortest length. This approach will even work in practice for very short lists of cities. But it breaks down quickly as the number of cities grows. If there are N cities, then the number of different paths among them is 1.2..(N-~ L), or (V 1)!. The time to examine a single path is proportional to N. So the total time required to perform this search is proportional to NI. Assuming there are only 10 cities, 10! is 3,628,800, which is a very large number. The salesman could easily have 25 cities to visit. To solve this problem would take more time than he would be willing to spend. This phenomenon is called combinatorial explosion. To combat it. we need a new control strategy. We can beat the simple strategy outlined above using a technique called branchand-bound. Begin generating complete paths, keeping track of the shortest path found so far. Give up exploring any path as soon as its partial length becomes greater than the shortest path found so fa