 players would like to bid them when the combined strength of the cards permits it. Therefore, most teams devise bidding systems, which define an alternate semantics of bids apart from the legal one binding for a contract. Thus, usually while on the surface, a bid is a bid for a particular contract, it usually carries some encoded information ? meant for the partner about her hand. And this is not something nefarious but within the rules of the game, and the bidding system has to be revealed to the opponent. A linguistic approach to model bidding has been explored in (Jamroga, 1999, 2000). Bidding then is not merely making a bid for a contract. It involves other things as well. The primary task is to communicate information between partners to try and know enough to bid for the right contract. For this to be done, bidding systems encode information, typically about the number of cards in a suit or information about high cards, for the players to judge the right contract. But when communication is taking place, the opponents are there eavesdropping as well. They can also make use of the information being exchanged. This may motivate a process of deception, when a player intentionally conveys false information to mislead them. Bidding systems are often sophisticated enough to allow one player to ask the partner for some specific information. The players need to manage the resource of the bidding space available to exchange as much information as possible. The opponents may pitch in with nuisance bids, known as preemptive bids, to gobble some bidding space. The process of bidding then is the process of encoding and deciphering information in bids, often in the face of resource constraints and interference from opponents. A player has to make interferences and imagine the most likely hands that a partner, and opponents, can have and arrive at an estimate of the best contract. Finally, the success of bidding is not known after the auction is over. It is only reflected in