accept about 400 inlieu ofagamble that
gives 1000halfthetimeand 0theotherhalf thatis,thecertaintyequivalentofthelottery
is 400,whilethe EM Vis 500. Thedifferencebetweenthe EM Vofalotteryanditscertainty
INSURANCE equivalent is called the insurance premium. Risk aversion is the basis for the insurance
PREMIUM
industry, because it means that insurance premiums are positive. People would rather pay a
small insurance premium than gamble the price of their house against the chance of a fire.
From the insurance company s point of view, the price of the house is very small compared
with the firm s total reserves. This means that the insurer s utility curve is approximately
linearoversuchasmallregion, andthegamblecoststhecompanyalmostnothing.
Noticethatforsmallchanges inwealthrelative tothecurrentwealth, almostany curve
willbeapproximately linear. Anagent thathasalinearcurveissaidtoberisk-neutral. For
RISK-NEUTRAL
gambles with small sums, therefore, we expect risk neutrality. In a sense, this justifies the
simplified procedure that proposed small gambles to assess probabilities and to justify the
axiomsofprobability in Section13.2.3.
16.3.3 Expected utilityand post-decisiondisappointment Therational waytochoosethebestaction, a ,istomaximizeexpected utility:
a argmax EU(a e).
a
Ifwehavecalculatedtheexpectedutilitycorrectlyaccordingtoourprobability model,andif
the probability model correctly reflects the underlying stochastic processes that generate the
outcomes, then,onaverage,wewillgettheutilityweexpectifthewholeprocess isrepeated
manytimes.
In reality, however, our model usually oversimplifies the real situation, either because
we don t know enough (e.g., when making a complex investment decision) or because the
computation of the true expected utility is too difficult (e.g., when estimating the utility of
successor states of the root node in backgammon). In that case, we are really working with
estimates E ! U(a e) of the true expected utility. We will assume, kindly perha