gram considers two possible theories of the world, both
ofwhichareconsistentwithallthedata,themostcommonwayofbreakingthetieistochoose
themostsuccincttheory andthatdependsonthelanguageusedtorepresenttheories. Thus,
theinfluenceoflanguage onthoughtisunavoidable foranyagentthatdoeslearning.
8.1.2 Combining the bestofformaland natural languages
Wecan adopt the foundation of propositional logic a declarative, compositional semantics
that is context-independent and unambiguous and build a more expressive logic on that
foundation, borrowing representational ideas fromnatural language whileavoiding itsdraw-
backs. Whenwelookatthesyntaxofnaturallanguage,themostobviouselementsarenouns
and noun phrases that referto objects (squares, pits, wumpuses) and verbs and verbphrases
OBJECT
that refer to relations among objects (is breezy, is adjacent to, shoots). Some of these rela-
RELATION
tions are functions relations in which there is only one value for a given input. It is
FUNCTION
easytostartlistingexamplesofobjects, relations, andfunctions: Objects: people,houses,numbers,theories,Ronald Mc Donald,colors,baseballgames,
wars,centuries ... Relations: thesecanbeunaryrelations or propertiessuchasred,round, bogus, prime,
PROPERTY
multistoried ...,ormoregeneral n-aryrelations suchasbrotherof,biggerthan,inside,
partof,hascolor,occurred after,owns,comesbetween, ... Functions: fatherof,bestfriend,thirdinningof,onemore than,beginning of...
Indeed, almost any assertion can be thought of as referring toobjects and properties orrela-
tions. Someexamplesfollow:
Section8.1. Representation Revisited 289 Oneplustwoequalsthree. Objects: one, two, three, one plus two; Relation: equals; Function: plus. ( One plus
two is a name for the object that is obtained by applying the function plus to the
objects one and two. Three isanothernameforthisobject.) Squaresneighboring thewumpusaresmelly. Objects: wumpus,squares; Property: smelly;Relation: neighboring. Evil King Johnruled Englandin1200. Objects: John