the structure of a chemical compound. This problem is important because the chemical and physical properties of compounds are determined not just by what their constituent atoms are, but by the arrangement of these atoms as well . The difficulty is that the number of candidate structures (called hypotheses) for a given compound can be very large, and grows combinatorially (running into millions) as we consider molecules with more and more atoms. Dendral led to a program called CONGEN (CONstrained GENerator) that allows a chemist to constrain the generation of candidates. Figure 6.5 shows some of the hypotheses generated by CONGEN for the compound CgH;3NOp . The candidates generated were used as inputs to a system that produced synthetic spectrograms which were then tested against real spectrograms of the given compounds, before presenting them to the user. The key to its success was to use its knowledge of chemistry in the form of rules about allowed and taboo connections, to consider only plausible candidates. The success of the program is illustrated by the following quote: By observing structural constraints within molecules which made certain combinations of atoms implausible, generating and testing hypotheses about the identity of the compound, and ruling out candidates that did not fit within the structural constraints, Dendral traced branches of a tree chart that contained all possible configurations of atoms, until it reached the configuration that matched the instrument data most closely. Hence, its name, from dendron, the Greek word for tree. ... In its practical utilization, Dendral was designed to relieve chemists of a task that was demanding, repetitive, and time-consuming: surveying a large number of molecular structures, to find those that corresponded to instrument data. Once fully operational, the program performed this task with greater speed than an expert spectrometrist, and with comparable accuracy. Figure 6.6 illustrates the kind of search spac