which itself is a meaningless affair! This is the symbol grounding problem. In the context of the meaninglessness of the use of symbols, Harnad provides a classic example of learning Chinese. Assume you do not know Chinese and had to learn it using a Chinese to Chinese dictionary. You | 24 Artificial Intelligence nemesis A would compare character by character of a given word and find the corresponding word in the dictionary only to tind many more (meanings) written in the same language alongside, for which you would repeat the same task. The process would put you on an endless merry-go-round. It would be only by translating it to a language that you understand that your brain can finally perceive what it means. The Chinese symbols in the present case are not grounded to its meaning. The moral of the example is simple You cannot ground the meaning of a symbol with other meaningless symbols. Harnad also cites that cryptologists are able to comprehend ancient languages and symbols because their efforts are grounded in their real world domain knowledge as also on some previous language that forms its basis. Robots form the ultimate test-bed for AI. While AI researchers have brought forth a reasonably large repository of techniques and programs that are based on the symbol system, implementing them on robots have posed several problems. Though this may be beyond, the scope of this book we must exercise caution while implementing symbolic AI. For instance on board a robot a symbol red has to be actually grounded to some values reported by the camera or a colour sensor. Finally one should not forget that research in AI is multidisciplinary. People have been using AI techniques to reap benefits in a gamut of applications. There are still a lot more untrodden paths to be discovered. In the quest to find better techniques, the reader is advised to give imagination a free run so that the marginal and the peripheral are accommodated without losing the grounding of each symbol. 