the traditional scope of mathematics. It turns out that mathematics is no different from any other complex intellectual endeavor in requiring both reliable deductive mechanisms and a mass of heuristic knowledge to control what would otherwise be a completely intractable search problem. At this point, readers who are unfamiliar with propositional and predicate logic may want to consult a good introductory logic text before reading the rest of this chapter. Readers who want a more complete and formal presentation of the material in this chapter should consult Chang and Lee [1973]. Throughout the chapter, we use the following standard logic symbols: (material implication), 7 (not), \/ (or), /\ (and), VW (for all), and 2 (there exists). Using Predicate Logic : 99 5.1 REPRESENTING SIMPLE FACTS IN LOGIC Let s first explore the use of propositional logic as a way of representing the sort of world knowledge that an Al system might need. Propositional logic is appealing because it is simple to deal with and a decision procedure for it exists. We can easily represent real-world facts as logical propositions written as well-formed formulas (wff's) in propositional logic, as shown in Fig. 5.1. Using these propositions, we could, for example, conclude from the fact that it is raining the fact that it is not sunny. But very quickly we mun up against the limitations of propositional logic. Suppose we want to represent the obvious fact stated by the classical sentence it is raining. RAINING It is sunny. SUNNY It is windy. WINDY Hf it is raining, then it is not sunny. RAINING >- SUNNY Fig. 5.1 Some Simple Facts in Prepositional Logic Socrates is a man. We could write: SOCRATESMAN But if we also wanted to represent Plato is a man. we would have to write something such as: PLATOMAN which would be a totally separate assertion, and we would not be able to draw any conclusions about similarities between Socrates and Plato. It would be much better to represent these facts as: MAN(SOCRATES