problem solving that we do every day when we decide how to get to work in the morning, often called commonsense reasoning. It includes reasoning about physical objects and their relationships to each other (e.g., an object can be in only one place at a time), as well as reasoning about actions and their consequences (e.g., if you let go of something, it will fall to the floor and maybe break). To investigate this sort of reasoning, Newell, Shaw, and Simon built the General Problem Solver (GPS), which they applied to several commonsense tasks as well as to the problem of performing symbolic manipulations of logical expressions. Again, no attempt was made to create a program with a large amount of knowledge about a particular problem domain. Only simple tasks were selected. As Al research progressed and techniques for handling larger amounts of world knowledge were developed, some progress was made on the tasks just described and new tasks could reasonably be attempted. These include perception (vision and speech), natural language understanding, and problem solving in specialized domains such as medical diagnosis and chemical analysis. Perception of the world around us is crucial to our survival. Animals with much less intelligence than people are capable of more sophisticated visual perception than are current machines. Perceptual tasks are difficult because they involve analog (rather than digital) signals; the signals are typically very noisy and usually a large number of things (some of which may be partially obscuring others) must be perceived at once. The problems of perception are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 21. The ability to use language to communicate a wide variety of ideas is perhaps the most important thing that separates humans from the other animals. Tbe problem of understanding spoken language is a perceptual problem and is hard to solve for the reasons just discussed. But suppose we simplify the problem by restricting it to written languag