car. Dataenters thispipeline atthe sensor interface layer. Theperception layer
LAYER
PERCEPTIONLAYER
1006 Chapter 25. Robotics
(a) (b)
Figure25.27 (a)The Helpmaterobottransportsfoodandothermedicalitemsindozens
of hospitals worldwide. (b) Kiva robotsare part of a material-handlingsystem formoving
shelvesinfulfillmentcenters. Imagecourtesyof Kiva Systems.
then updates the robot s internal models of the environment based on this data. Next, these
PLANNINGAND models are handed to the planning and control layer, which adjusts the robot s internal
CONTROLLAYER
plansturnsthemintoactualcontrols fortherobot. Thosearethencommunicated backtothe
VEHICLEINTERFACE vehiclethroughthevehicleinterfacelayer.
LAYER
The key to the pipeline architecture is that this all happens in parallel. While the per-
ception layer processes the most recent sensor data, the control layer bases its choices on
slightly older data. In this way, the pipeline architecture is similar to the human brain. We
don tswitchoffourmotioncontrollerswhenwedigestnewsensordata. Instead,weperceive,
plan, andactallatthesametime. Processes inthepipeline architecture runasynchronously,
andallcomputation isdata-driven. Theresulting systemisrobust, anditisfast.
Thearchitecturein Figure25.26alsocontainsother,cross-cuttingmodules,responsible
forestablishing communication betweenthedifferentelementsofthepipeline.
25.8 APPLICATION DOMAINS
Herearesomeoftheprimeapplication domainsforrobotictechnology.
Industryand Agriculture. Traditionally, robotshavebeenfieldedinareasthatrequire
difficult human labor, yet are structured enough to be amenable to robotic automation. The
best example is the assembly line, where manipulators routinely perform tasks such as as-
sembly, part placement, material handling, welding, and painting. In many of these tasks,
robots have become more cost-effective than human workers. Outdoors, many of the heavy
machines that we use to harvest, mine, or excavate earth have been turned into robots. For
Section25