 experience with the engineering problems of building and maintaining very large knowledge bases. In the future, it will be necessary to have tools that check consistency in the knowledge base, point out areas of incompleteness, and ensure that users do not step on each others toes. EXERCISES ides ge taps ese seineng AU ait nen angsawenesent, BEDE see 1. Show a conceptual dependency representation of the sentence John begged Mary for a pencil. How does this representation make it possible to answer the question Did John talk to Mary? 2. One difficulty with representations that rely on a small set of semantic primitives, such as conceptual dependency, is that it is often difficult to represent distinctions between fine shades of meaning. Write CD representations for each of the following sentences. Try to capture the differences in meaning between the two sentences of each pair. John slapped Bill. John punched Bill. Bill drank his Coke. Bill slurped his Coke. Sue likes Dickens. Sue adores Dickens. 3. Construct a script for going to a movie from the viewpoint of the movie goer. 4. Consider the following paragraph: Jane was extremely hungry. She thought about going to her favorite restaurant for dinner, but it was the day before payday. So instead she decided to go home and pop a frozen pizza in the oven. On the way, though, she ran into her friend, Judy. Judy invited Jane to go out to dinner with her and Jane instantly agreed. When they got to their favorite place, they found a good table and telaxed over their meal. Strong Slot-and-Filler Structures 221 TS ERETTTTY. How could the restaurant script be invoked by the contents of this story? Trace the process throughout the story. Might any other scripts also be invoked? For example, how would you answer the question, Did Jane pay for her dinner? . Would conceptual dependency be a good way to represent the contents of a typical issue of National Geographic ? . State where in the CYC ontology following concepts should fa