ecifies where the output is to be directed, like to the monitor or some other external file. For our purposes, destination will always be t to signify the default output, the monitor. String is the desired output string, but intermixed with format directives which specify how each argument is to be represented. Directives appear in the string in the same order the arguments are to be printed. Each directive is preceded with a tilde character () to identify it as a directive. We list only the most common directives below. A The argument is printed as though princ were used -s The argument is printed as though prinl were used. Sec. 3.4 Input. Output, and Local Variables 31 1) The argument which must he an integer is printed as a decimal nunihei 1" The argument s .icli must he a floating-poilit number is printed as a dcciiiial floating-poi itt number. The argument is printed as character output. % A new-line is printed. The field widths for appropriate argument values are specified with an integer nimediady following the tilde symbol; for example. 'SD specifies an integer field of width 5. As an example ol foriltat . suppose .r and v have been hound to floatingpoint numbers 3.0 and 9.42 respectively. Using format, these numbers can he embedded within a string nt text. - -(format t "Circle radius 2F%Crc Ie area - 3F' s y) "Circle radius - 10 Circle area - 9.42" Constructs for Local Variables Frequently. it is desirable to designate local variables (variables which are defincd only within a given procedure) rather than the global assignments which result from sctq . Of course parameters named as arguments in a function definition -artlocal, The values they are assigned within the function are accessible only within that function. For example, consider the variables .v and v in the following: lsetq y '(a b cl) (ABC) - -lsetq x Id e I)) DEE) - -(defuri local-var (a) )setq V (coos s V))) LOCAL-VAR - -(local-var 61 (6 A B ) (DEE) (ABC) The variable r in the defun is local in