rise to the frame problem.11 One possible solution to the frame problem would
FRAMEPROBLEM
10 Section7.4.3convenientlyglossedoverthisrequirement.
11 Thename frameproblem comesfrom frameofreference inphysics theassumedstationarybackground
withrespecttowhichmotionismeasured. Italsohasananalogytotheframesofamovie, inwhichnormally
mostofthebackgroundstaysconstantwhilechangesoccurintheforeground.
Section7.7. Agents Basedon Propositional Logic 267
be to add frame axioms explicitly asserting all the propositions that remain the same. For
FRAMEAXIOM
example,foreachtimetwewouldhave
Forwardt (Have Arrowt Have Arrowt 1)
Forwardt (Wumpus Alivet Wumpus Alivet 1) where we explicitly mention every proposition that stays unchanged from time t to time
t 1 under the action Forward. Although the agent now knows that it still has the arrow
aftermovingforwardandthatthewumpushasn t diedorcomebacktolife,theproliferation
of frame axioms seems remarkably inefficient. In a world with m different actions and n
fluents, the set of frame axioms will be of size O(mn). This specific manifestation of the
REPRESENTATIONAL frame problem is sometimes called the representational frame problem. Historically, the
FRAMEPROBLEM
problemwasasignificantonefor AIresearchers; weexploreitfurtherinthenotesattheend
ofthechapter.
Therepresentational frameproblemissignificantbecausetherealworldhasverymany
fluents, to put it mildly. Fortunately for us humans, each action typically changes no more
than some small number k of those fluents the world exhibits locality. Solving the repre-
LOCALITY
sentational frameproblem requires definingthetransition modelwithasetofaxiomsofsize
INFERENTIALFRAME O(mk) rather than size O(mn). There is also an inferential frame problem: the problem
PROBLEM
ofprojecting forwardtheresultsofa tstepplanofactionintime O(kt)ratherthan O(nt).
The solution to the problem involves changing one s focus from writing axioms about
actions towriting axioms about fluents. Thus, foreach fluent F, wewill