w.bridgebaron.com home.shtml 21 http: www. ny-bridge.com allevy computerbridge results2007.html 22 http: www.jackbridge.com eindex.htm 23 Scrabble refers to the SCRABBLE brand word game, a registered trademark of Milton Bradley, a division of Hasbro, Inc. 24 A word of Yiddish origin defined as expert with a connotation of know-it-all 25 Quackle is available at http: veb.mit.edu jasonkb www quackle 26 . and perhaps derives its name from this property. 27 FISHING Generally it s a bad idea to play 1 or 2 letters in the hope of picking up a specific letter to make a great play. The most common letter in Scrabble is E; there are 12 E s in the set out of a total of 100. This means on average, you only have a 1 in 8 chance of picking an E and that the chances of picking any other specific letters are lower. Near the end of the game, however, fishing becomes more viable. Obviously, you won't know precisely what letters your opponent holds. But you can see what letters have been played and take an educated guess at what's left in the bag. http: www.mattelscrabble.com en adults Aips Aip5.html 28 http: www.cs.ualberta.ca events csdays 1999 openhouse chinook.html 29 Also called Pachisi, it was popular in the Mughal courts of India. http: www.tradgames.org.uk games Pachisi.htm 30 Including himself, his brothers and his wife. Rules of Backgammon 1996-2007 by Tom Keith, http: www.bkgm.com rules.html 32 The problem is circumvented in bridge to a large extent because performance is evaluated against other players on the same deal. 33 Move the checker at 13 to position 9, and the one at 6 to 5. 34 By the author s nephews, Anish (age 9) and Arnav (age 7), who invented the new rule. Constraint Satisfaction Problems Chapter 9 I" state space search, we formulate problem solving as a process of making a sequence of moves from a given Start state ending in a desired Goal state. We assume that the moves themselves are generated by a move generating function moveGen. But states have to be re