bjects are given a viewer-centered coordinate system. The models here provide distance, volume, and surface structure. Threedimensional spatial reconstruction requires the use of various tools including stereopsis, shape contours, shape from shading and texturc, and oth Lr tools described earlier. 314 Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 4. The three-dimensional models. The representations at the three-dimensional model level are symbolic ones giving attribute, relational, and geometric descriptions of the scere. The use of generalized cones and cylinders help to represent many object types, and hierarchical descriptions facilitate processing. High-.evol Processing High-level processing techniques are less mechanical than either of the prececdng image processing levels. They are more closely related to classical Al symbolic methods. In the high-level processing stage, the intermediate-level region descriptions are transformed into high-level scene descriptions in one of the knowledge repiesentalion formalisms described earlier in Part II (associative nets, frames. FOPL statements, and SO on: see Figure 1424). The end objective of this stage is to create high-level knowledge structures which can he used by an inference program. Needless to say, the resulting structures should uniquely and accurately describe the important objects in an image including their interrelationships. In this regard, the particular vision application will dictate the appropriate level of detail, and what is considered to he important in a scene description. There are various approaches to the scene description problem. At one extreme, it will be sufficient to simply apply pattern recognition methods to classify certain objects within a scene. This approach may require no more than application of the methods described in the preceding chapter. At the other extreme, it may be desirable to produce a detailed description of some general scene and provide an interpretation of the function, purpose