icit about temporal relationships (for example, events are just marked as past tense) nor have we made any real attempt to represent the meaning of the qualifier really. It should, however, illustrate-the basic form that representations such as this take. One of the key ideas in this sort of representation is that entities in the representation derive their meaning from their connections to other entities. In the figure, only the entities defined by the sentence are shown. But other entities, corresponding to concepts that the program knew about before it read this sentence, also exist in the representation and can be referred to within these new structures. In this example, for instance, we refer to the entities Mary, Coat (the general concept of a coat of which Thing/ is a specific instance), Liking (the general concept of liking), and Finding (the general concept of finding). Event 2 instance : Finding tense: Past agent ; Mary object: Thing! Thing! instance: Coat color: Red Event2 instance: Liking tense : Past modifier: Much object: Thing! Fig. 1.2 A Structured Representation of a Sentence What is Artificial Intelligence? 15 Input Question The input question in character form. Struct Question A structured representation of the content of the user s question. The structure is the same as the one used to represent the content of the input text. The Algorithm Convert the Input Text into structured form using the knowledge contained in English Know. This may require considering several different potential structures, for a variety of reasons, including the fact that English words can be ambiguous, English grammatical structures can be ambiguous, and pronouns may have several possible antecedents. Then, to answer a question, do the following: 1. Convert the question to structured form, again using the knowledge contained in English Know. Use some special marker in the structure to indicate the part of the structure that should be returned as the answer. This marker wi