out on the road and drives, using
thisperformance element. Thecritic observes theworldand passes information along tothe
learningelement. Forexample,afterthetaximakesaquickleftturnacrossthreelanesoftraf-
fic,thecriticobservestheshockinglanguageusedbyotherdrivers. Fromthisexperience, the
learningelementisabletoformulatearulesayingthiswasabadaction,andtheperformance
element is modified by installation of the new rule. The problem generator might identify
certainareasofbehaviorinneedofimprovementandsuggest experiments,suchastryingout
thebrakesondifferentroadsurfaces underdifferentconditions.
Thelearning elementcanmakechanges toanyofthe knowledge components shown
intheagentdiagrams(Figures2.9,2.11,2.13,and2.14). Thesimplestcasesinvolvelearning
directly from the percept sequence. Observation of pairs of successive states of the environ-
mentcanallow theagent tolearn Howtheworldevolves, and observation oftheresults of
itsactions canallowtheagenttolearn Whatmyactions do. Forexample, ifthetaxiexerts
a certain braking pressure when driving on a wet road, then it will soon find out how much
deceleration is actually achieved. Clearly, these two learning tasks are more difficult if the
environment isonlypartially observable.
The forms of learning in the preceding paragraph do not need to access the external
performance standard in a sense, the standard is the universal one of making predictions
that agree with experiment. The situation is slightly more complex for a utility-based agent
thatwishestolearnutilityinformation. Forexample,suppose thetaxi-driving agentreceives
no tips from passengers who have been thoroughly shaken up during the trip. The external
performance standard mustinform theagentthatthelossoftipsisanegativecontribution to
its overall performance; then the agent might be able to learn that violent maneuvers do not
contribute to its own utility. In a sense, the performance standard distinguishes part of the
incomingperceptasareward(orpenalty)thatprovidesdirectfe