on showshowtheforward-chaining algorithm solvestheproblem. ...itisacrimeforan Americantosellweaponstohostilenations :
American(x) Weapon(y) Sells(x,y,z) Hostile(z) Criminal(x). (9.3) Nono...hassomemissiles. Thesentence x Owns(Nono,x) Missile(x)istransformed
intotwodefiniteclausesby Existential Instantiation, introducing anewconstant M :
1
Owns(Nono,M ) (9.4)
1
M. issile(M ) (9.5)
1 Allofitsmissilesweresoldtoitby Colonel West :
Missile(x) Owns(Nono,x) Sells(West,x,Nono). (9.6)
Wewillalsoneedtoknowthatmissilesareweapons:
Missile(x) Weapon(x) (9.7)
Section9.3. Forward Chaining 331
andwemustknowthatanenemyof Americacountsas hostile :
Enemy(x,America) Hostile(x). (9.8) West,whois American... :
American(West). (9.9) Thecountry Nono,anenemyof America ... :
Enemy(Nono,America). (9.10)
This knowledge base contains no function symbols and is therefore an instance of the class
of Datalog knowledge bases. Datalog is a language that is restricted to first-order definite
DATALOG
clauses withnofunction symbols. Datalog getsitsnamebecause itcanrepresent thetypeof
statements typically made in relational databases. We will see that the absence of function
symbolsmakesinference mucheasier.
9.3.2 A simpleforward-chaining algorithm
Thefirstforward-chaining algorithmweconsiderisasimple one,shownin Figure9.3. Start-
ing from the known facts, it triggers all the rules whose premises are satisfied, adding their
conclusions to the known facts. The process repeats until the query is answered (assuming
that just one answer is required) or no new facts are added. Notice that a fact is not new if it is just a renaming of a known fact. One sentence is a renaming of another if they
RENAMING
are identical except for the names of the variables. For example, Likes(x,Ice Cream) and
Likes(y,Ice Cream) arerenamings ofeach otherbecause theydiffer only in thechoice of x
ory;theirmeaningsareidentical: everyonelikesicecream.
We use our crime problem to illustrate how FOL-FC-ASK works. The implication
senten