LD-like
problemswithoutaccesstothehigh-speedfloating-pointarithmeticusedin BUILD sphysical
modeling. Hayes (1985a) uses histories four-dimensional slices of space-time similarto
Davidson s events to construct a fairly complex naive physics of liquids. Hayes was the
firsttoprovethatabathwiththepluginwilleventuallyoverflowifthetapkeepsrunningand
that a person who falls into a lake will get wet all over. Davis (2008) gives an update to the
ontology ofliquids thatdescribes thepouringofliquidsintocontainers.
De Kleer and Brown (1985), Ken Forbus (1985), and Benjamin Kuipers (1985) inde-
pendently and almost simultaneously developed systems that can reason about a physical
system based on qualitative abstractions of the underlying equations. Qualitative physics
soon developed to the point where it became possible to analyze an impressive variety of
complex physical systems (Yip, 1991). Qualitative techniques have been used to construct
noveldesignsforclocks,windshieldwipers,andsix-leggedwalkers(Subramanianand Wang,
1994). Thecollection Readings in Qualitative Reasoning about Physical Systems (Weldand
Exercises 473
de Kleer, 1990) an encyclopedia article by Kuipers (2001), and ahandbook article by Davis
(2007)introduce tothefield.
Spatialreasoning: Thereasoning necessary tonavigate inthe wumpusworld and shopping
SPATIALREASONING
world is trivial in comparison to the rich spatial structure of the real world. The earliest
seriousattempttocapturecommonsensereasoningaboutspaceappearsintheworkof Ernest
Davis(1986,1990). Theregionconnection calculus of Cohnetal.(1997)supportsaformof
qualitative spatial reasoning and has led to new kinds of geographical information systems;
seealso (Davis, 2006). Aswithqualitative physics, anagent cangoalong way, sotospeak,
without resorting to a full metric representation. When such a representation is necessary,
techniques developedinrobotics(Chapter25)canbeused.
PSYCHOLOGICAL Psychological reasoning: Psychological reasoning involves the develo