 collection of true statements (premises), one is interested in know tements are logically entailed (necessarily made true) by the premises. Figure 12.1 below gives as ome premises and the sentences entailed by them. , oO o - aan vy oO .o a Oo nbo. if Qa oO oO Pa Og a o o azirhut.com wt t a oO o go oO ; o oO Qo oO Yoo obo 4 FF Og og ane a") o oOo, O -2-. --- - oOo v po 98 3 o 7 o QO ; Oo Oo oO ) o Oe oo o 90 gee oOo oO .-- . Oo Oo -- se 5 7- .1 A schematic view of entailment. Each box represents a true statement. The boxes in the shaded region represent premises sent statements that are true as a consequence of the premises. ask of reasoning in logic is to determine the set of statements that are entailed by a given set of st s). Let S be the set of premises that we take for granted to be true. The task is to find the set T that atements that are necessarily true as a consequence of the set S. Then S is the set of all statements be true, and the set Tis the set of all true statements including the ones that are implicitly true. Both dertain to sentences in a given language. Proofs nt is concerned with true statements. Determining whether a statement is true or not may ward. Logic adopts a different route to arriving at true statements. One that involves the entirely proof. A proof is made up of a sequence of inference steps. Each inference step allows one to add tence to the existing set of sentences. Each inference step is based on a rule of inference. Th - used in the above two arguments is the syllogism, and can be expressed as follows. ule says that if one has (instances of) the first two statements in a set, then one can add the (corre of the) third statement to the set. It is purely a syntactic process. We will say that given the antece: luces the consequent. There could be many rules of inference in a logic machine, as we shall see Qr. et of premises S and the set of rules R together determine the set of statements that can be added t e set P of provable stat