he algorithms with the CSP in Figure 9.33, which is a map colouring CSP on the constraint graph of Figure 9.29 shown here with the domains. The ordering chosen is GDBFEAC, which the reader would have noticed is not the best one, though it is useful for illustrating the algorithms. FIGURE 9.33 A CSP associated with the constraint graph of Figure 9.29. We assume the problem is a map-colouring problem with the domains as shown. The fixed ordering chosen is GDBFEAC, depicted by numbers in the graph on the right. The search tree generated by algorithm Backtracking is shown in Figure 9.34. Each node, except the root, represents a choice of value for a variable. The value has to be consistent with the values of its ancestor nodes. The variables are ordered according to the chosen ordering. In the algorithm Backtracking, the ordering is fixed, but other algorithms may choose different orderings along different branches. The reader is encouraged to try different orderings of a small CSP and verify that the number of nodes in the tree depend upon the ordering. Backtracking goes down the leftmost branch with the partial assignment G w, D g, B b, F r, E g and A r, before it realizes that it cannot find a consistent value for C. C r conflicts with A r, and C b conflicts with B b. It backtracks and tries E r, and now finds that there is no value left for A. There are no more consistent values for E, F, and B left, and it next tries the path with B g. Eventually, it terminates with the rightmost path with solid lines that goes down to the value C b. The solution is the set of values along that path and has been assembled in the list A in the algorithm in Figure 9.32. Algorithm Backtracking backtracks only when it reaches a variable that it cannot find a value for. We next look at some strategies that can foresee the dead end a little earlier. The degree of foresight is dependent on the amount of work the algorithm does analysing future variables. Vanables Go: Vv D g m B b b g b g 