olution but a sensorless agent that insists on 1-CNF belief
stateswillnotfindit.
Perhaps a better solution is to look for action sequences that keep the belief state
as simple as possible. For example, in the sensorless vacuum world, the action sequence Right,Suck,Left,Suck generates thefollowingsequence ofbeliefstates:
b True
0
b At R
1
b At R Clean R
2
b At L Clean R
3
b At L Clean R Clean L
4
That is, the agent can solve the problem while retaining a 1-CNF belief state, even though
some sequences (e.g., those beginning with Suck) go outside 1-CNF. The general lesson is
not lost on humans: we are always performing little actions (checking the time, patting our
pocketstomakesurewehavethecarkeys,readingstreetsignsaswenavigatethroughacity)
toeliminate uncertainty andkeepourbeliefstatemanageable.
There is another, quite different approach to the problem of unmanageably wiggly be-
lief states: don t bother computing them at all. Suppose the initial belief state is b and we
0
would like to know the belief state resulting from the action sequence a ,...,a . Instead
1 m
of computing it explicitly, just represent it as b then a ,...,a . This is a lazy but un-
0 1 m
ambiguous representation of the belief state, and it s quite concise O(n m) where n is
the size of the initial belief state (assumed to be in 1-CNF) and m is the maximum length
of an action sequence. As a belief-state representation, it suffers from one drawback, how-
ever: determining whether the goal is satisfied, or an action is applicable, may require a lot
ofcomputation.
Thecomputationcanbeimplementedasanentailmenttest: if A representsthecollec-
m
tion of successor-state axioms required to define occurrences of the actions a ,...,a as
1 m
explainedfor SATPLA Nin Section10.4.1 and G
m
assertsthatthegoalistrueaftermsteps,
thentheplanachievesthegoalifb A G ,thatis,ifb A G isunsatisfiable.
0 m m 0 m m
Givenamodern SA Tsolver,itmaybepossibletodothismuchmorequicklythancomputing
thefull belief state. Forexample, i