 fast . ACT AA 15. Attributive dependency. The single arrow is used when something is an attribute of something else. The following illustrates this with an example. Rashmi ate the huge hot dog while watching a scary movie . In the diagram the movie has two attributes, one that it is indefinite (because it is a movie ) and the other that it is scary. Likewise the hot dog has two attributes one that it is the hot dog and the other is that it is huge. Finally, the event of watching the movie is an attribute denoting when the event of eating the hot dog occurred. Rashmi watch Movie scary indefinite Rashmi ate Hot dog huge definite 16. Prepositional dependency. A double arrow is used to denote dependencies like possessed by , contained in , containing . For example, Piyush finished reading his big book yesterday would be represented as, yesterday yesterday Piyush read book Y Poss-by Piyush In the above figure, the label t signifies that the act of reading has terminated, while the attribute yesterday marks the entire event. The fact that the book belongs to Piyush is shown as an attributive dependency. 13.6.1 Conceptual Actions and States In the illustrations above we have freely used action and state names borrowed from the English language. However, one of the objectives of the CD theory was to get to the meaning or semantics behind natural language utterances. Understanding a natural language utterance here means arriving at a possibly language independent semantic representation from the utterance. This representation should be canonical in the sense that the many different ways of saying the same thing that the richness of language allows us2 should all map onto it. This does not debar one from using words from a language as names of concepts, as long as one is conscious of the overloading. The CD theory, which has been used to describe every day actions, uses a small set of state variables, and a small set of conceptual acts. The state variables take numerical val