nstructing
large commonsense knowledge bases by hand, an approach that has not fared well to date.
There is great promise in using the Web as a source of natural language text, images, and
videos to serve as a comprehensive knowledge base, but so far machine learning algorithms
arelimitedintheamountoforganized knowledge theycanextractfromthesesources.
27.2 AGENT ARCHITECTURES
It is natural to ask, Which of the agent architectures in Chapter 2 should an agent use? The answer is, All of them! We have seen that reflex responses are needed for situations
in which time is of the essence, whereas knowledge-based deliberation allows the agent to
HYBRID plan ahead. A complete agent must be able to do both, using a hybrid architecture. One
ARCHITECTURE
important property of hybrid architectures is that the boundaries between different decision
components are not fixed. For example, compilation continually converts declarative in-
formationatthedeliberativelevelintomoreefficientrepresentations, eventuallyreachingthe
reflexlevel see Figure27.2. (Thisisthepurposeofexplanation-basedlearning,asdiscussed
in Chapter 19.) Agent architectures such as SOAR (Laird et al., 1987) and THEO (Mitchell,
1990) have exactly this structure. Every time they solve a problem by explicit deliberation,
they save away a generalized version of the solution for use by the reflex component. A
less studied problem is the reversal of this process: when the environment changes, learned
reflexes may no longer be appropriate and the agent must return to the deliberative level to
produce newbehaviors.
Agents also need ways to control their own deliberations. They must be able to cease
deliberating when action is demanded, and they must be able to use the time available for
deliberation to execute the most profitable computations. For example, a taxi-driving agent
that sees an accident ahead must decide in a split second either to brake or to take evasive
action. It should also spend that split second thinking