den Braid (1979). Introduction Chapter 1 The human mind is a wondrous thing. For centuries, humans have reflected upon the world we live in; looking at the sun, the moon and the stars in wonderment, observing nature as the days grew and shrunk, seasons change, the searing heat of the summer followed by the dark clouds bringing welcome rain; observing life around us in the form of plants and trees and rabbits and bees; the constant struggle for food and the desire to avoid becoming food; and most of all, upon themselves and the human species amidst all these. We, the Homo sapiens, have learned to exploit this ability to reflect upon the world around us to make life better for ourselves. After the extinction of the dinosaurs, when mammals began flourishing, we were probably just one amongst the many species foraging for food and fleeing the predators. Evolution, however, bestowed us with bigger brains; and we started changing the rules of the survival game being played amongst the different species. We learnt to form societies and evolved language as a means of communication between individuals; we learnt to protect and domesticate species of flora and fauna that were advantageous for us; and perhaps most importantly, we learnt to make and use tools. As humankind became technologically more advanced, individual lifestyles diversified enormously. Though we are all born the same, as we grow and learn we channelize our activity and occupations into a multitude of directions, and the more technologically advanced we have become, the more specialized our professions have become. This has no doubt given us the benefits of efficiency, exemplified by workers in a factory, each doing a specific task. We drink our coffee grown by someone, transported by someone else; roasted, ground, and packaged by an organized mini-society, and sold to us by someone else. Everything we use in our daily lives goes through a similar process, and we are able to enjoy a rich and bountiful existen