uman way of doing things? Let the intelligent agent have its own representation scheme, and let it acquire knowledge from others through natural language. There would still be issues consistency and adequacy. How would a system handle inconsistent inputs? And would it seek more knowledge in some areas it is interested in? Planning and Goals There are two aspects to intelligence. The first is the ability to solve a problem or achieve a goal efficiently and even elegantly. The second is concerned with choosing a goal meaningfully. The first is sort of operational in nature; a kind of proficiency or a skill. The second deals with meaning and purpose (of life), and is by far the more intangible of the two. Humans have divergent pulls towards money, fame, excitement, adventure, enjoyment, satisfaction and contentment. A different mix works for each individual. Very often young people rush into courses and careers without complete introspection and realise much later what their calling in life is. An intelligent agent in its world may, or may not, have long-term goals. In the real world, all living creatures have a constantly changing set of short-term goals. These goals arise largely due to an implicit longterm goal of survival the in-built tendency to continue living. Many of these goals are in conflict with goals of other agents and the intelligent agent has to monitor the actions of others and the situation as a whole to be able to make better immediate decisions. Given that no agent can hope to have complete information it becomes imperative to glean as much as one can from the little that one can sense. This requires an ability to make the relevant inferences quickly. Even in the face of uncertain and incomplete information. Then one has to choose an appropriate goal based on the situation the agent is in. When one does not have the resources time or data to find an optimal solution, it would be prudent to strive for a good solution that is feasible. The ability to 