 that can be used to model belief systems in which, at any given point, a particular fact is believed to be true, believed to be false, or not considered one way or the other. For some kinds of problem solving, though, it is useful to be able to describe beliefs that are not certain but for which there is some supporting evidence. Let s consider two classes of such problems. The first class contains problems in which there is genuine randomness in the world. Playing card games such as bridge and blackjack is a good example of this class. Although in these problems it is not possible to predict the world with certainty, some knowledge about the likelihood of various outcomes is available, and we would like to be able to exploit it. The second class contains problems that could, in principle, be modeled using the techniques we described in the last chapter. In these problems, the relevant world is not random; it behaves normally unless there is some kind of exception. The difficulty is that there are many more possible exceptions than we care to enumerate explicitly (using techniques such as AB and UNLESS). Many common sense tasks fall into this category, as do many expert reasoning tasks such as medical diagnosis. For problems like this, statistical measures may serve a very useful function as summaries of the world; rather than enumerating all the possible exceptions, we can use a numerical summary that tells us how often an exception of some sort can be expected to occur. In this chapter we explore several techniques that can be used to augment knowledge representation techniques with statistical measures that describe levels of evidence and belief. 8.1 PROBABILITY AND BAYES THEOREM An important goal for many problem-solving systems is to collect evidence as the system goes along and to modify its behavior on the basis of the evidence. To model this behavior, we need a statistical theory of evidence. Bayesian statistics is such a theory. The fundamental notion of B