ollowing definitions (Hunt et al.. 1966, and Rendell. 1985). Definitions Object. Any entity, physical or abstract, which can be described by a set of attribute (feature) values and attribute relations is an object. We will refer to an object either by its name 0, or by an appropriate representation such as the vector of attribute values x (x1, x2.....x,,). Clearly, the x, can be very primitive attributes or higher level, more abstract ones. The choice will depend on the use being made of the representations. For example, a car maybe described with primitives as an entity made from steel, glass, rubber, and its other component materials or, at a higher level of abstraction, as an object used for the transportation of passengers at speeds ranging up to 250 miles per hour. Class. Given some universe of objects U, a class is a subset of U. For example, given the universe of four-legged animals, one class is the subset horses. Concept. -This is a description of some class (set) or rule which partitions the universe of objects U into two sets, the set of objects that satsisfy the rule and those that do not. Thus, the concept of horse is a description or rule which asserts the set of all horses and excludes all nonhorses. Hypothesis. A hypothesis H is an assertion about some objects in the universe. It is a candidate or tentative concept which partitions the universe of objects. Ooe such hypothesis related to the concept of horse is the class of four-legged animals with a tail. this is a candidate (albeit incomplete) for the concept horse. Target concept. The target is one concept which correctly classifies all objects in the universe. Positive instances. These are example objects which belong to the target concept. Negative instances. These are examples opposite to the target concept. Consistent classification rule. This is a rule that is true for all positive instances and false for all negative instances. Induction. lnduc Oon is this process of class formation. Here we 