
lives. One common currency used in medical and safety analysis is the micromort, a
MICROMORT
one in a million chance of death. If you ask people how much they would pay to avoid a
risk for example, to avoid playing Russian roulette with a million-barreled revolver they
will respond with very large numbers, perhaps tens of thousands of dollars, but their actual
behaviorreflectsamuchlowermonetaryvalueforamicromort. Forexample,drivinginacar
for230 miles incurs arisk of one micromort; overthe life of yourcar say, 92,000 miles that s 400 micromorts. People appear to be willing to pay about 10,000 (at 2009 prices)
more for a safer car that halves the risk of death, or about 50 per micromort. A number
of studies have confirmed a figure in this range across many individuals and risk types. Of
course, this argument holds only forsmallrisks. Mostpeople won t agree tokillthemselves
for 50million.
Another measure is the QALY,or quality-adjusted life year. Patients with a disability
QALY
are willing to accept a shorter life expectancy to be restored to full health. For example,
kidneypatientsonaverageareindifferentbetweenlivingtwoyearsonadialysismachineand
oneyearatfullhealth.
16.3.2 The utilityofmoney
Utility theory has its roots in economics, and economics provides one obvious candidate
for a utility measure: money (or more specifically, an agent s total net assets). The almost
universal exchangeability of money for all kinds of goods and services suggests that money
playsasignificantroleinhumanutilityfunctions.
Itwillusuallybethecasethatanagentprefersmoremoneytoless,allotherthingsbeing
MONOTONIC equal. We say that the agent exhibits a monotonic preference for more money. This does
PREFERENCE
notmeanthatmoneybehaves asautility function, because itsaysnothing aboutpreferences
betweenlotteriesinvolving money.
Supposeyouhavetriumphedovertheothercompetitorsinatelevisiongameshow. The
host now offers you achoice: either you can take the 1,000,000 prize oryou can gamble it
on the fl