attribute. The inter-quartile distance for an attribute is the distance between the first quarter and the fourth quarter. As shown in the figure, this distance is the maximum, along the dimension in which the spread of the cases is the maximum. x FIGURE 15.18 The vertical separator produced by the test on attribute X, produces partitions that are closely knit together, as compared to the test on Xp. The maximum inter-quartile distance chooses to split across dimensions that have the maximum spread. A third approach is to use the notion of information gain to choose the attribute. However, this is possible only when the cases are used to classify objects into different classes. We shall look at this approach when we study the D3 algorithm to build decision trees in Chapter 18. The reader would have observed that constructing the kd-tree is an expensive process. Even for choosing one attribute, the entire set of cases has to be partitioned along all possible dimensions. However, one must keep in mind that this happens only in the preprocessing stage. The hard work put in during tree construction bears fruit later, during case retrieval, in the form of faster retrieval. The first thing that happens when a query comes is that the retrieval algorithm goes down the kd-tree answering questions at each node. When it reaches a bucket, the cases in the bucket are compared sequentially with the query. Then, depending upon whether the retrieval criterion is satisfied or not, the algorithm may need to visit some neighbouring buckets. This is because a better case might lie in one of those buckets. That could happen for example, when the query falls near the corner of a bucket. The kd-tree retrieval algorithm employs two tests to make decisions on these issues. The BWB Test The Ball Within Bounds (BWB) test is used as the termination criteria. The ball in question is a hypothetical surface defined by the retrieval criterion and the constructed retrieval set. For threshold based r