n any scientific or engineering research project is How will we know if we have succeeded? Artificial intelligence is no exception. How will we know if we have constructed a machine that is intelligent? That question is at least as hard as the unanswerable question What is intelligence? But can we do anything to measure our progress? In 1950, Alan Turing proposed the following method for determining whether a machine can think. His method has since become known as the Turing Test. To conduct this test, we need two people and the machine to be evaluated. One person plays the role of the interrogator, who is in a separate room from the computer and the other person. The interrogator can ask questions of either the person or the computer by typing questions and receiving typed responses. However, the interrogator knows them only as A and B and aims to determine which is the person and which is the machine. The goal of the machine is to fool the interrogator into believing that it is the person. If the machine succeeds at this, then we will conclude that the machine can think. The machine is allowed to do whatever it can to fool the interrogator. So, for example, if asked the question How much is 12,324 times 73,981? it could wait several minutes and then respond with the wrong answer (Turing, 1963]. The more serious issue, though, is the amount of knowledge that a machine would need to pass the Turing test. Turing gives the following example of the sort of dialogue a machine would have to be capable of: Interrogator: In the first line of your sonnet which reads Shall 1 compare thee to a summer s day, would not a spring day do as well or better? A It wouldn t scan. Interrogator: How about a winter s day. That would scan all right. A: Yes, but nobody wants to be compared to a winter s day. Interrogator: Would you say Mr. Pickwick reminded you of Christmas? A: In a way. What is Artificial Intelligence? 21 Interrogator: Yet Christmas is a winter s day, and 1 do not think M