odes. The main thing is that when a set of actions are available to an agent and the agent tries out different actions or combinations of actions, and over a period of time learns the actions that fetch it more rewards, is carrying out a process of reinforcement learning. How quickly must one generalize from instances? In the seventies, when the Yale group was trying out explanation based learning, they found that after hearing a few stories about accidents that happened to have two casualties generalized, that accidents (always) have two casualties. This is a little bit like saying that if you toss a coin three times and it ends up head always, you generalize that the coin is completely biased . An important aspect of learning is that we need tremendous amount of data to learn association between action (or events) and effects in a world where there are many other actions happening with possible similar effects. The debate of the relation between cancer and smoking is showing signs of being decided after many decades of arguments and experiments. The debate on climate change is similar. The most recent debate is whether radiation from mobile phone towers and cellphones is linked to brain cancer or not. One is not able to conclusively say either whether it is or it is not. By the time one arrives at a conclusion that cannot be refuted, many lives may be lost, or on the other hand, a government might have deprived its citizens of some technology. The debate over the safety of the planned nuclear power plant in Kudankulam in India is a case in point. Clearly, sometimes decisions, for example whether to load uranium rods in the reactor or not, have to be made using other forms of reasoning. Having said that, learning patterns from data needs lots of time and data, it is clear that much can be learnt from a process of trial and error. Let us consider a simple example of playing a game. Suppose someone teaches a new game called tic-tac-toe that you were not familiar with