ave the system do forward propagation of knowledge during periods of infrequent use, such as at night. Strong Slot-and-Filler Structures 219 ROSATI II 10.3.4 Global Ontology Ontology is the philosophical study of what exists. In the AI context, ontology is concerned with which categories we can usefully quantify over and how those categories relate to each other. All knowledge-based systems refer to entities in the world, but in order to capture the breadth of human knowledge, we need a weildesigned global ontology that specifies at a very high level what kinds of things exist and what their general properties are. As mentioned above, such a global ontology should provide a more solid foundation for domain-specific AI programs and should also allow them to communicate with each other. The highest level concept in CYC is called Thing. Everything is an instance of Thing. Below this top-level concept, CYC makes several distinctions, including: Individual Object versus Collection The CYCL concept Collection corresponds to the class CLASS described in Chapter 9. Here are some examples of frames that are instances of Collection: Person, Nation, Nose. Some instances of In dividual Object are Fred, Greece, Fred's Nose, These two sets share no common instances, and any instance of Thing must be an instance of one of the two sets. Anything that is an instance of Collection is a subset of Thing. Only Collections may have supersets and subsets; only Individual Objects may have parts. Intangible, Tangible, and Composite Instances of Intangible are things without mass, e.g., sets, numbers, laws, and events. Instances of Tangible Object are things with mass that have no intangible aspect, e .g., a person s body, an orange, and dirt. Every instance of Tangible Object is also an instance of Individual Object since sets have no mass. Instances of Composite Object have two key slots, physical Extent and intangible Extent. For example, a person is a Composite Object whose physical Exte