the axioms describe the interactions between signals and cir-
cuit elements. (See Section 8.4.2 on page 309 for an example.) Logical reasoners designed
specially for verification have been able to verify entire CP Us, including their timing prop-
erties (Srivas and Bickford, 1990). The AURA theorem prover has been applied to design
circuitsthataremorecompactthananyprevious design(Wojciechowski and Wojcik,1983).
In the case of software, reasoning about programs is quite similar to reasoning about
actions, as in Chapter 7: axioms describe the preconditions and effects of each statement.
The formal synthesis of algorithms was one of the first uses of theorem provers, as outlined
by Cordell Green (1969a), who built on earlier ideas by Herbert Simon (1963). The idea
is to constructively prove a theorem to the effect that there exists a program p satisfying a
DEDUCTIVE certain specification. Although fully automated deductivesynthesis, asitiscalled, has not
SYNTHESIS
yet become feasible forgeneral-purpose programming, hand-guided deductive synthesis has
beensuccessfulindesigningseveralnovelandsophisticatedalgorithms. Synthesisofspecial-
purpose programs,suchasscientificcomputing code,isalso anactiveareaofresearch.
Similartechniquesarenowbeingappliedtosoftwareverificationbysystemssuchasthe
SPIN model checker (Holzmann, 1997). Forexample, the Remote Agent spacecraft control
program was verified before and after flight (Havelund et al., 2000). The RSA public key
encryptionalgorithmandthe Boyer Moorestring-matching algorithmhavebeenverifiedthis
way(Boyerand Moore,1984).
Section9.6. Summary 357
9.6 SUMMARY
Wehave presented ananalysis oflogical inference infirst-orderlogic and anumberofalgo-
rithmsfordoingit. A first approach uses inference rules (universal instantiation and existential instan-
tiation) to propositionalize the inference problem. Typically, this approach is slow,
unlessthedomainissmall. Theuseofunificationtoidentify appropriate substitutions forvariables elimina