 be expressed as conjunctions of the primitive states, for example shocked surprise (6) A disgust (-5). These are states of human beings. Likewise other entities could have states too. One could also account for modeling cultural differences in the use of language by a community specific mapping onto the values of a variable. For example, if a community is known to understate things, then the statement I m a bit upset with your behaviour or I m a little unwell could be mapped appropriately to the values to compensate for the linguistic understatement. ( p.the a hand, if a community is known to overstate matters then their statements Poul be mapped onto the values with a pinch of salt. Human beings are creatures of the mind. The mental state of a human being usually has a significant influence on behavior, and has been a subject of intense study in psychology and related fields. A plethora of self help books teach us how to control our mind and emotions, and techniques like meditation and deep breathing are often recommended to people who tend to get overly excited. Is there a complete set of variables that can be used to describe all emotional states of humans? Is there a set of primitives in terms of which one can describe all emotional states? It should be an interesting quest for those aiming to model emotions. 13.6.2 The Rasa Theory One of the earliest attempts in characterizing human emotion was in Bharata s ancient classical work called the Natyasastra, (the science of drama, dance and music) about two millennia ago (Mishra, 1964), (Vatsayayan, 1996). Written in Sanskrit, the text consists of 6, 000 sutras, or verse stanzas, incorporated in 36 or 37 chapters2 . The theory of emotions is called the Rasa theory (rasa means juice, so in a way it is like extracting the essence of human emotions). The motivation of the work, as the name suggests, was to identify the dominant emotions and permanent emotions in the heart of every human being (Sharma, 2003). The Natya