ctures English Know Inpat Text Structured Text Artificial Intelligence A description of the words, grammar, and appropriate semantic interpretations of a large enough subset of English to account for the input texts that the system will see. This knowledge of English is used both to map input sentences into an internal, meaningoriented form and to map from such interttal forms back into English. The former process is used when English text is being read; the latter is used to generate English answers from the meaning-oriented form that constitutes the program s knowledge base. The input text in character form. A structured representation of the content of the input text. This structure attempts to capture the essential knowledge contained in the text, independently of the exact way that the knowledge was stated in English. Some things that were not explicit in the English text, such as the referents of pronouns, have been made explicit in this form. Representing knowledge such as this is an important issue in the design of almost all AI programs. Existing programs exploit a variety of frameworks for doing this. There are three important families of such knowledge representation systems: production rules (of the form if x then y ), slot-and-filler structures, and statements in mathematical logic. We discuss all of these methods later in substantial detail, and we look at key questions that need to be answered in order to choose a method for a particular program . For now though, we just pick one arbitrarily. The one we ve chosen is a slot-and-filler structure. For example, the sentence She found a red one she really liked, might be represented as shown in Fig. 1.2. Actually, this is a simplified description of the contents of the sentence. Notice that it is not very explicit about temporal relationships (for example, events are just marked as past tense) nor have we made any real attempt to represent the meaning of the qualifier really. It should, however, illustrate