ief-statespaceofsingletonbeliefstates.
Section4.4. Searchingwith Partial Observations 139
alwaysknowsitsownbeliefstate. Furthermore, thesolution (ifany)isalwaysasequence of
actions. Thisisbecause,asintheordinaryproblemsof Chapter3,theperceptsreceivedafter
eachactionarecompletelypredictable they re alwaysempty! Sotherearenocontingencies
toplanfor. Thisistrue eveniftheenvironment isnondeterminstic.
It is instructive to see how the belief-state search problem is constructed. Suppose
theunderlying physical problem P isdefined by ACTIONSP , RESULTP , GOAL-TESTP ,and
STEP-COSTP . Thenwecandefinethecorresponding sensorless problem asfollows: Beliefstates: Theentirebelief-statespacecontainseverypossiblesetofphysicalstates.
If P has N states,thenthesensorless problemhasupto2N states,although manymay
beunreachable fromtheinitialstate. Initial state: Typically the set of allstates in P, although insome cases the agent will
havemoreknowledge thanthis. Actions: This is slightly tricky. Suppose the agent is in belief state b s ,s , but
1 2
ACTIONSP (s
1
) (cid:7) ACTIONSP (s
2
);thentheagent isunsure ofwhichactions arelegal.
If we assume that illegal actions have no effect on the environment, then it is safe to
taketheunionofalltheactionsinanyofthephysicalstatesinthecurrent beliefstateb:
(cid:15)
ACTIONS(b) ACTIONSP (s).
s b
Ontheotherhand, ifanillegalactionmightbetheendoftheworld, itissafertoallow
only the intersection, that is, the set of actions legal in all the states. For the vacuum
world,everystatehasthesamelegalactions, sobothmethodsgivethesameresult. Transition model: The agent doesn t know which state in the belief state is the right
one; so as far as it knows, it might get to any of the states resulting from applying the
action tooneofthe physical states inthebelief state. Fordeterministic actions, theset
ofstatesthatmightbereached is
b (cid:2) RESULT(b,a) s (cid:2) : s (cid:2) RESULTP (s,a)ands b . (4.4)
(cid:2)
Withdeterministic actions, b isneverlargerthan b. Withnon