o demonstrated, as early as 1936, that a simple computer processor ('later named the Turing machine) could manipulate symbols as well as numbers. Second, the new field of cybernetics, a name coined by Norbert Wiener. brought together many parallels between human and machine. Cybernetics, the study of communication in human and machine, became an active area of research during the 1940s and 1950s. It combined concepts from information theory, feedback control systems (both biological and machine), and electronic computers. Third came the new developments being, made in formal grammars. This work was an outgrowth of logic during the early 1900s. It helped to provide new approaches to language theories in the general field of linguistics. Finally, during the 1950s, the electronic stored program digital computer became a commercial reality. This followed several years of prototype systems including the Mark I Harvard relay computer (1944). the University of Pennsylvania Moore School of Electrical Engineering's ENIAC electronic computer (1947). and subsequent development of the Aberdeen Proving Ground's EDVAC and Sperry-Rands UNIVAC. Other important developments during this earlv,period which helped to launch Al include the introduction of information theory due largely to the work of Claude Shannon, neurological theories and models of the brain which were originated by psychologists, as well as the introduction of Boolean algebra. switching theory. and even statistical decision theory. Of course Al is not just the product of this century. Much groundwork had been laid by earlier researchers dating back several hundred years. Names like Aristotle. Leibnitz, Babbage. Hollerith. and many others also played important roles in building a foundation that eventually led to what we now know as Al. Work after 1950 During the 1950s several events occurred which marked the real beginning of Al. This was a period noted for the chess playing programs which were developed by research