on, the originator of the APL programming language, believed that the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis applied to computer languages. Noam Chomsky s theory of linguistics is built around the notion of a Universal Grammar that all humans are innately born with (Chomsky, 1965). The key point however is that symbolic representation, or semiotics, appears to be the stepping stone to thought. It is still not quite clear how to represent certain concepts like water, air, and other kinds of materials. Is one talking of the material itself in an abstract sense or is one referring to a specific occurrence of the material? How can we represent the notion of water ? If one said Ainka drank a glass of water then we can represent the fact the glass contained something, but how does one define the semantics of the term water here. It is surely not a discrete object in the domain the term can map to. We tend somehow to think of water as fluid, flowing, something that takes the shape of its container, something that tends to settle down at the lowest level, and a type whose instance is not discrete. How do we represent the fact that some amount of this kind of stuff is what was contained in the glass, and that Ainka drank? Yet at the same time we do not have a problem with the sentence Ainka picked up a cube of ice because that is somehow a single discrete object. What does it means to say Ayaka likes to drink water , or Accalia like to splash around in water , or Water is essential for life ? These are issues that have to solved before a machine can knowledgeably interact with us in our languages. The following example from Sowa (2000) gives us a clue: Clyde is an elephant. Elephant is a species. Can we infer that Clyde is a species ? No, because the word elephant in the second line is something that belongs to a type of thing called a species . It is an element or term here, a reified term, which belongs to the class species . This is similar to the fact that Clyde in the first sentence is