opological semantics2 specifies that each vari-
able is conditionally independent of its non-descendants, given its parents. Forexample, in
DESCENDANT
Figure14.2, John Calls isindependent of Burglary,Earthquake,and Mary Calls giventhe
value of Alarm. Thedefinition isillustrated in Figure 14.4(a). From these conditional inde-
pendence assertions and the interpretation of the network parameters (X Parents(X ))
i i
asspecifications ofconditional probabilities P(X Parents(X )), thefull jointdistribution
i i
given in Equation (14.2) can be reconstructed. In this sense, the numerical semantics and
the topological semantics areequivalent.
Another important independence property is implied by the topological semantics: a
nodeisconditionallyindependentofallothernodesinthenetwork,givenitsparents,children,
and children s parents that is, given its Markovblanket. (Exercise 14.7asks you toprove
MARKOVBLANKET
this.) Forexample,Burglary isindependentof John Calls and Mary Calls,given Alarm and
Earthquake. Thisproperty isillustrated in Figure14.4(b).
2 There is also a general topological criterion called d-separation for deciding whether a set of nodes X is
conditionally independent of another set Y, givenathirdset Z. Thecriterionisrathercomplicated and isnot
neededforderivingthealgorithmsinthischapter,soweomitit.Detailsmaybefoundin Pearl(1988)or Darwiche
(2009).Shachter(1998)givesamoreintuitivemethodofascertainingd-separation.
518 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
. . .
U U
1 m U 1 . . . U m
X X
Z Z Z Z
1j nj 1j nj
Y Y
Y Y 1 . . . n
1 . . . n
(a) (b)
Figure14.4 (a) A node X is conditionallyindependentofits non-descendants(e.g.,the
Zijs) given its parents (the Uis shown in the gray area). (b) A node X is conditionally
independentofallothernodesinthenetworkgivenits Markovblanket(thegrayarea).
14.3 EFFICIENT REPRESENTATION OF CONDITIONAL DISTRIBUTIONS
Evenifthe maximumnumberofparents k issmallish, filling inthe CP Tforanode requires
upto O(2k)numbersandperhapsagreatdealofexperience