 for these parameters, by completing games with different rack leaves, and recording the future score associated with each combination. The future score is the difference in the score of the side to move and the opponent over the rest of the game. It collected these scores over a set of games, and used these to tune the values associated with the letter combinations in the rack leave. Current Score The points scored by the current move obviously contribute to the final score. Thus, this is a direct measure of the goodness of a move. Board Position Surprisingly, the board position does not contribute much to the evaluation function. This is contrary to the opinion of experts that giving openings to the opponents is not a good idea, and one should be willing to sacrifice a few points to avoid opening up the board for opponents. Experiments reported with Maven reveal the opposite; that board position does not contribute to the evaluation function. Intuitively, one can understand this by observing that the board in Scrabble is fundamentally different from the board in other games. It is the same for both sides! In games like Chess, Go, Backgammon and Checkers, the two players have their own coins, and thus the arrangements of the coins are a reflection of the status of the game. In Scrabble, on the other hand, the coins are not owned by any one player, and can be used in future moves by both. In that sense, an open board is equally good for both. That only leaves the question of the immediate move advantage. Experiments with Maven reveal that this is negligible, except in the case of triple-word openings. This is when an opponent can gain a significant advantage. There too, the value of the opening depends upon the state of a game. For example, playing a Q near the triple-word hotspot may not yield value in most positions, specially in the end game. Maven has a table of values of letter combinations near triple-word that it uses to evaluate the cost of giving such an op