 the basic building blocks in all are concepts, roles, and individuals. Traditionally, the knowledge base is partitioned into two parts. The TBox is concerned with terminological reasoning, or reasoning about concepts. The ABox is concerned with assertions, or reasoning about individuals. A simple language named atfor attributive languages was introduced by Schmidt-Schau and Smolka (1991). The ALallows the following expressions for describing concepts. Aor ort are atomic concepts 7A is the negation of an atomic concept CwD is the intersection of concepts C and D (equivalent to AND C D ) VR.C restricts all role fillers to C (equivalent to ALL :R C ) IR.T says that there exists a role filler (equivalent to EXISTS 1 :R)) An even simpler language traditionally known as FL is a sublanguage of ALwithout negation. If we further disallow the existential statement, the language is known as FLo.The more recent nomenclature described below extends AL. More expressive languages can be obtained by adding some of the following descriptors. CnD is the union of concepts C and D. The corresponding language is described using the additional symbol u, for example ALU. 3R.C says that there exists a role filler of type C. The language is characterized by the (additional) symbol E, for full existential quantification. nR says that there are at least n role fillers, and nR says that there are at most n role fillers. The extended language is characterized by n,for number restriction. 1Ris a functional relation characterized by F. 3nR.C and nR.C are qualified number restrictions in which the role filler belongs to the concept C. These languages are marked with a. 7C is the negation of arbitrary concepts, allowed in languages characterized by C. a1, ..., An for n 1 allows concepts to be described explicitly by listing the individuals. The language extension is o. Thus, extensions may be described as AL UJ E Q F 0 INI, depending upon the additional descriptors. In addition to allowing differe