e. But to solve the problem of finding the interpretation we need to produce only the interpretation itself. No record of the processing by which the interpretation was found is necessary. Contrast this with the water jug problem. Here it is not sufficient to report that we have solved the problem and that the final state is (2, 0). For this kind of problem, what we really must report is not the final state but the path that we found to that state. Thus a statement of a solution to this problem must be a sequence of operations (sometimes called apian) that produces the final state. These two examples, natural language understanding and the water jug problem, illustrate the difference between problems whose solution is a state of the world and problems whose solution is a path to a state. At one level, this difference can be ignored and all problems can be formulated as ones in which only a state is required to be reported. If we do this for problems such as the water jug, then we must redescribe our states so that each state represents a partial path to a solution rather than just a single state of the world. So this question 42 Artificial intelligence is not a forinally significant one. But, just as for the question of ignorability versus recoverability, there is often a natural (and economical) formulation of a problem in which problem states correspond to situations in the world, not sequences of operations. In this case, the answer to this question tells us whether it is necessary to record the path of the problem-solving process as it proceeds. 2.3.6 What is the Role of Knowledge? Consider again the problem of playing chess. Suppose you had unlimited computing power available. How much knowledge would be required hy a perfect program? The answer to this question is very little just the rules for determining legal moves and some simple control mechanism that implements an appropriate search procedure. Additional knowledge about such things as good strategy and t