to P(C) = 0.8. On the other hand, without more knowledge of the other two groups, we would not want to say that the probability is Q. I that each one of them is guilty. Yet, traditional theory would have us distribute an equal amount of the remaining probability to each of the other groups. In fact, we may have no knowledge to justify either the amount of uncertainty nor the equal division of it. Finally, with classical probability theory, we are forced to regard belief and disbelief as functional opposites. That is, if some proposition A is assigned the probability P(A) = 0.3, then we must assign A the probability P(-A) 0.7 since we must have P(A) + P(A) = I. This forces usto make an assignment that may be conflicting since it is possible to both believe and disbelieve some propositions by the same amount, making this requirement awkward. In an attempt to remedy the above problems, a generalized theory has been proposed by Arthur Dempster (1968) and extended by his student Glenn Shater (1976). It has come to be known as the Dempster-Shafer theory of evidence. The theory is based on the notion that separate probability masses may be assigned to all subsets of a universe of discourse rather than just to indivisible single members as required in traditional probability theory. As such, it permits the inequality P(A) + P(A) 1. In the Dempster-Shafer theory, we assume a universe of discourse U and a set corresponding to n propositions, exactly one of which is true. The propositions are assumed to be exhaustive and mutually exclusive. Let 2' denote all subsets of U including the empty set and U itself (there are 2" such subsets). Let the set function m (sometimes called a basic probability assignment) defined on 2l , be a mapping to (0,11, m:2 10,11, be such that for all subsets A C U M(0) = 0 m(A) = The function m defines a probability distribution on 2' (not just on the singletons of U as in classical .theory). it represents the measure of belief committed exactly to A