ng that which results from an event), and locative (the case of location of the event).. Additional tases or substitutes for those given above have since been introduced, including beneficiary, source, destination, to or from, goal, and time. Case frames are provided for verbs to identify allowable cases. They give the relationships which are required and those which are optional. For the above sentence, a case frame for the verb struck might he STRIJCK[OBJECTIVE (AGENTIVE) (INSTRUMENTAL)] This may be interpreted as stating that the verb struck must occur in sentences with a noun phrase in the objective case and optionally (parentheses indicate optional use) with noun phrases in the agentive and instrumental cases. A tree representation for a case grammar will identify the words by their modality and case. For example, a case grammar tree for the sentence "Sue did - not take the car" is illustrated in Figure 12.4. 238 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 s /f\ . "'-^ Declarative V Cl C2 negation past Figure 12.4 Case grammar tree take Se the car representation. To build a tree structure like this requires that a word Lexicon with sufficient information be available in which to determine the case of sentence elements. Systemic Grammars Systemic grammars emphasize function and purpose in the analysis of language. They attempt to account for the personal and social aspects which influence communication through language. As such, context and pragmatics play a more important role in systemic grammars. Systemic grammars were introduced by Michael Halliday (1961) and Winograd (1972) in an attempt to account for the principles that underlie the organization of different structures. He classifies language by three functions which relate to content, purpose, and coherence. 1. The ideational function relates to the content: intended by the speaker. This function provides irrna!ion about the kinds of activities being described, who the actors are, whether there are other partic