 at building systems that can make sense of free-form text. Natural Language Generation (NLG) aims at building systems that can express their knowledge or explain their behaviour in natural language. Building systems that understand natural language is both important and challenging. It is important because intelligence is all about making sense of the world around us, and the world is more likely to present itself to an intelligent agent in natural language, than in structured representation languages. Merrill Lynch estimates that more than 85 of all business information exists as unstructured text (Blumberg et al., 2003). Examples of such free-form data abound in the form of emails, memos, notes from call centres and support operations, news, user groups, chats, reports, surveys, white papers, research articles, presentations and Web pages. It will take an astronomically large number of man hours to render them all into representations machines are comfortable with. Even if all of humankind were engaged to burn the midnight oil out to achieve this, the problem is not going to go away, because we are generating unstructured documents at a far higher pace than we can assimilate them. It was estimated in 2006 that more data will be produced in 2007, than has been generated during the entire existence of humankind (Panurgy, 2006). A systems that rely critically on formal representations are analogous to a well laid out network of pipes and taps within a building, whose overhead tank has to be filled in by battalions of people carrying buckets. In the context of this metaphor, an NLU system can be thought of as a pump that feeds the overhead tank automatically. The growth of the World Wide Web has seen a renewed interest in NLU systems that can facilitate knowledge engineering from a diverse collection of unstructured documents. There are many other interesting applications of NLP systems, which we review in detail in Section 16.3. Understanding natural language is cha