out
negation has a unique minimal model. Recent years have seen renewed interest in applica-
tionsofnonmonotonic logicstolarge-scale knowledgerepresentation systems. The BENINQ
systemsforhandling insurance-benefit inquiries wasperhaps thefirstcommercially success-
fulapplication ofanonmonotonic inheritance system (Morgenstern, 1998). Lifschitz (2001)
discussestheapplicationofanswersetprogrammingtoplanning. Avarietyofnonmonotonic
reasoning systems based on logic programming are documented in the proceedings of the
conferences on Logic Programmingand Nonmonotonic Reasoning(LPNMR).
The study of truth maintenance systems began with the TMS (Doyle, 1979) and RUP
(Mc Allester, 1980) systems, both of which were essentially JTM Ss. Forbus and de Kleer
(1993) explain in depth how TM Ss can be used in AI applications. Nayak and Williams
(1997) show howanefficientincremental TM Scalled an ITM Smakes itfeasible toplan the
operations ofa NAS Aspacecraft inrealtime.
Thischaptercouldnotcovereveryareaofknowledgerepresentationindepth. Thethree
principal topicsomittedarethefollowing:
QUALITATIVE Qualitativephysics: Qualitativephysicsisasubfieldofknowledgerepresentationconcerned
PHYSICS
specificallywithconstructingalogical,nonnumerictheoryofphysicalobjectsandprocesses.
The term was coined by Johan de Kleer (1975), although the enterprise could be said to
have started in Fahlman s (1974) BUILD, a sophisticated planner for constructing complex
towers of blocks. Fahlman discovered in the process of designing it that most of the effort
(80 , by his estimate) went into modeling the physics of the blocks world to calculate the
stability of various subassemblies of blocks, rather than into planning per se. He sketches a
hypothetical naive-physics-like processtoexplainwhyyoungchildrencansolve BUILD-like
problemswithoutaccesstothehigh-speedfloating-pointarithmeticusedin BUILD sphysical
modeling. Hayes (1985a) uses histories four-dimensional slices of space-time similarto
Davidson s events to c