nstance the START natural language question answering system (http://start.csail.mit.edu/). You will find that both the questions ~ What is the capital of India? and Is Delhi the capital of India? yield the same answers, viz. New Delhi is the capital of India. On the contrary the question Are there wolves in Korea? yields I don t know if there are wolves in Korea. which looks quite natural. 1.3.3 Conclusion We have just examined two series of programs to solve two very different problems. In each series, the final program exemplifies what we mean by an AI technique. These two programs are slower to execute than the earlier ones in their respective series, but they illustrate three important AI techniques: e Search Provides a way of solving problems for which no more direct approach is available as well as a framework into which any direct techniques that are available can be embedded.. Use of Knowledge Provides a way of solving complex problems by exploiting the structures of the objects that are involved. Abstraction Provides a way of separating important features and variations from the many unimportant ones that would otherwise overwhelm any process. For the solution of hard problems, programs that exploit these techniques have several advantages over those that do not. They are much less fragile; they will not be thrown off completely hy a small perturbation in their input. People can easily understand what the program s knowledge is. And these techniques can work for large problems where more direct methods break down. We have still not given a precise definition of an AI technique. It is probably not possible to do so. But we have given some examples of what one is and what one is not. Throughout the rest of this book, we talk in great detail about what one is The definition should then become a bit clearer, or less necessary. 14 THE LEVEL OF THE MODEL Before we set out to do something, it is a good idea to decide exactly what we are trying to do. So we must a