t us now consider a more interesting example: monitoring a battery-powered robot
moving in the X Y plane, as introduced at the end of Section 15.1. First, we need state
variables, which will include both X (X ,Y ) for position and X (X ,Y ) for velocity.
t t t t t t
We assume some method of measuring position perhaps a fixed camera or onboard GPS
(Global Positioning System) yielding measurements Z . Theposition atthenext timestep
t
depends on the current position and velocity, as in the standard Kalman filter model. The
velocity at the next step depends on the current velocity and the state of the battery. We
add Battery to represent the actual battery charge level, which has as parents the previous
t
592 Chapter 15. Probabilistic Reasoning over Time
BMeter
1
R P(R )
P(R ) 0 1
0 t 0.7 Battery Battery
0.7 f 0.3 0 1
Rain Rain
0 1 X X
0 1
R P(U )
1 1
t 0.9
XXt
0
X
1
f 0.2
Umbrella 1 Z 1
(a) (b)
Figure 15.13 (a) Specification of the prior, transition model, and sensor model for the
umbrella DBN.Allsubsequentslicesareassumedtobecopiesofslice1. (b)Asimple DBN
forrobotmotioninthe X Yplane.
batterylevelandthevelocity,andweadd BMeter ,whichmeasuresthebatterychargelevel.
t
Thisgivesusthebasicmodelshownin Figure15.13(b).
It is worth looking in more depth at the nature of the sensor model for BMeter . Let
t
us suppose, for simplicity, that both Battery and BMeter can take on discrete values 0
t t
through 5. Ifthemeterisalwaysaccurate, thenthe CPTP(BMeter Battery )shouldhave
t t
probabilities of 1.0 along the diagonal and probabilities of 0.0elsewhere. In reality, noise
always creeps into measurements. For continuous measurements, a Gaussian distribution
with a small variance might be used.5 For our discrete variables, we can approximate a
Gaussian using a distribution in which the probability of error drops off in the appropriate
way, so that the probability of a large error is very small. We use the term Gaussian error
GAUSSIANERROR modeltocoverboththecontinuous anddiscrete ve