bear directly or indirectly on these questions. in the following chapters. We only mention here that Al is coming of an age where practical commercial products are now available including a variety of robotic devices, vision systems that recognize shapes and objects, expert systems that perform many difficult tasks as well as or better than their human expert counterparts, intelligent instruction systems that help pace a student's learning and monitor the student's progress. ''intelligent" editors that assist users in building special knowledge bases, and systems which can learn to improve their performance. 1.2 THE IMPORTANCE OF Al Is Al important? Definitely! Al may be one of the most important developments of this century. It will affect the lives of most individuals in civilized countries by the end of the century. And countries leading in the development of Al by then will emerge as the dominant economic powers of the world. The importance of Al became apparent to many of the world's leading countries 4 Overview of Artificial Intelligence Chap. 1 during the late 1970s. Leaders in those countries who recognized the potential for Al were willing to seek approval for long-term commitments for the resources needed to fund intensive research programs in Al. The Japanese were the first to demonstrate their commitment. They launched a very ambitious program in Al research and development. Known as the Fifth Generation, this plan was officially announced in October 1981 It calls for the implementation of a ten-year plan to develop intelligent supercomputers. It is a cooperative effort between government and private companies having an interest in the manufacture of computer products. robotics. and related ti-Ids. With a combined budget of about one billion dollars, the Japanese are determined they will realize many of their goals, namely. to produce systems that can converse in a natural language, understand speech and visual scenes, learn and refine their knowledge, m