 that add to a constant. For example, if H is the height of a balloon in the atmosphere, and P is the atmospheric pressure it is subjected to, we could write the confluence, OH OP 0 Keeping in mind that these variables come from Sign quantity space, we can interpret the confluence as asserting that when the height of the balloon increases (OH ), the atmospheric pressure outside it will decrease (oP -). A confluence captures monotonic relations between variables. We could describe Boyle s Law by the confluence dPressure dVolume 0 and Charles Law by the confluence 6Temperature d6Volume 0. The ideal gas laws would involve all the three variables. Johann de Kleer demonstrated the use of confluences to model and reason about physical systems. The basic idea is to describe components of systems using confluences. We look at the example presented in (de Kleer and Brown, 1984) in which a pressure regulator is modelled. A hydraulic pressure regulator shown in Figure 17.6 maintains the output pressure at the point labelled OUT in the figure. The basic idea behind the pressure regulator is that if the input pressure (at the point labelled IN) were to increase, it would lead to an increased flow across the valve at a higher pressure, which in turn would push the piston down, thus constricting the opening and reducing the flow and pressure. The simplest model for this regulator deals with three variables: P the pressure drop across the valve, Q the flow across the valve, and A the cross sectional area regulated by the piston. All the variables take values from the quantity space o. The following confluence captures the basic relations between the three. 6P 64 -50 0 One can interpret this confluence in a piecewise fashion. At constant pressure (OP 0), as the area available increases so does the flow. To maintain a constant flow (6Q 0), one has to increase the pressure drop, if the area available decreases. In general, a confluence is satisfied if the constituent variables have va