ay be traversed without satisfying any test condition in which case the word pointer is not advanced when a JUMP arc is traversed. An are labeled with a state, such as NP or PP, is defined as a PUSH arc. This arc initiates a call to another network with the indicated state (such as an NP or PP). When a PUSH arc is taken, a return state must be saved. This is accomplished by pushing the return pointer onto a stack. The POP arc, as noted above, is a dummy test which pops the top return node pointer that was previously pushed onto the stack. A TEST arc allows the use of an arbitrary test to determine if the arc is to he taken. For example. TEST can be used to determine II a sentence is declarative or interrogative, if one or more negatives occur, and so on. A WORD arc corresponds to a specific word test such as to. from, and at. (In some systems a list of words may apply rather than a single word,) To see how an interpreter operates with the grammar given for the RTN of Figure 12.6. we appyl it to the following sentence (the subscripted numbers gise the word positions): The ,big tree Sshades Stne(, old7house5by.4the i0stream TABLE 12.1 ARC LABELS FOR TRANSITION NETWORKS Tv pc 01 arc Purpose of arc Example CAT a lest label for the current word category V JUMP requires no test to succeed jump POP a label for the end of a network pop PUSH a label for a call to a network NP TEST a label for an arbitrary test negat Ives WORD a label for a specific word type from Sec. 12.4 Basic Parsing Techniques 249 Starting with CND set to SI. POS Set to I. and RLIST set to nil, the first arc test (NP) would be completed. Since this test is for a state, the parser would PUSH the return node S2 onto RLIST. set CND to NI. and call the NP network. Trying the first test DEl (a CAT test) in the NP network, a match would be found with word position 1. This would result in CND being updated to N2 and POS to position 2. The next word (big) satisfies the ADJ test causing CND to be updated to N2 ag