interface to an operating system and the following sentence is typed: T want to print Bill s .init file. Morphological Analysis Morphological analysis must do the following things: srg Pull apart the word Bill's into the proper noun Bill and the possessive suffix * Recognize the sequence init as a file extension that is functioning as an adjective in the sentence In addition, this process will usually assign syntactic categories to all the words in the sentence. This is usually done now because interpretations for affixes (prefixes and suffixes) may depend on the syntactic category of the complete word. For example, consider the word prints. This word is either a plural noun (with the -s marking plural) or a third person singular verb (as in he prints ), in which case the -s indicates both singular and third person. If this step is done now, then in our example, there will be ambiguity since want, print, and file can all function as more than one syntactic category. Syntactic Analysis Syntactic analysis must exploit the results of s morphological analysis to build a structural description NP~ RMN of the sentence. The goal of this process, called parsing, | 40 is to convert the flat list of words that forms the sentence PRO ~~ V (AM 3) into a structure that defines the units that are represented | | . I want by that fiat list. For our example sentence, the result of (RM2) NP VP. parsing is shown in Fig. 15.2. The details of this pho A p representation are not particularly significant; we describe | | (RMA) alternative versions of them in Section 15.2. What is l print / NN important here is that a flat sentence has been converted (RM2) ADJS NR into a hierarchical structure and that that structure has been Bilis acs N designed to correspond to sentence units (such as noun (RM5) | | phrases) that will correspond to meaning units when init file semantic analysis is performed. One useful thing we have Fig.15.2 The Result of Syntactic Analysis of I want done here, although