Tom Mitchell and Jean Scholtz. Thanks also to Don Speray for his help in producing the cover. David Shapiro and Joe Murphy deserve credit for superb editing, and for keeping us on schedule. We would also like to thank Nicole Vecchi for her wisdom and patience in the world of high resolution printing. Thanks to David Long and Lily Mummert for pointing us to the right fonts. Thanks to the following reviewers for their comments: Yigal Arens, University of Southern California; Jaime Carbonell, Carnegie Mellon University; Charles Dyer, University of Wisconsin, Madison; George Ernst, Case Western Reserve University; Pat Langley, University of California, Irvine; Brian Schunck, University of Michigan; and James Slagle, University of Minnesota. Camegie Mellon University and MCC provided us the environment in which we could write and produce this book. We would like to thank our colleagues, particularly Jim Barnett and Masaru Tomita, for putting up with us while we were waiting this book instead of doing the other things we were supposed to be doing. Elaine Rich Kevin Knight PART I PROBLEMS AND SEARCH CHAPTER 1 WHAT IS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE? There are three kinds of intelligence: one Kind understands things for itself, the other appreciates what others can understand, the third understands neither for itself nor through others. This first Kind is excellent, the second good, and the third Kind useless. Niccolo Machiavelli (1469-1527), Italian diplomat, political philosopher, musician, poet and playwright What exactly is artificia] intelligence? Although most attempts to define complex and widely used terms precisely are exercises in futility, it is useful to draw at least an approximate boundary around the concept to provide a perspective on the discussion that follows. To do this, we propose the following by no means universally accepted definition. Artificial intelligence (AI) is the study of how to make computers do things which, at the moment, people do better. This def