n some worlds and false in others. We use the possible world concepts in this section to describe a method proposed by Nilsson ( f986) which generalizes first order logic in the modelling of uncertain beliefs. The method assigns truth values ranging from 0 to I to possible 114 Probabilistic Reasoning Chap. 6 TABLE 6.1 TRUTH VALUE ASSIGNMENTS FOR THE SET (P. P .Q,O} Consistent Inconsistent P Q P-.Q P Q .Q true true t JUe MW true false true false false true false true false true true false true false false false true false false false worlds. Each set of possible worlds corresponds to a different interpretation of sentences contained in a knowledge base denoted as KB. Consider first the simple case where a KB contains only the single sentence S. S may be either true or false. We envision S as being true in one set of possible worlds W, and false in another set W. The actual world, the one we are in, must be in one of the two sets, but we are uncertain which one. Our uncertainty is expressed by assigning a probability P to W1 and I - P to W2. We can say then that the probability of S being true is P. When our KB contains L sentences, Si..... ' L' more sets of possibk worlds are required to represent all consistent truth value assignments. There art 2'- possible truth a.ssignments for L sentences. Some of the assignments may be inconsistent (impossible), however. For example, the set of sentences {P, P * has 23 possible truth assignments, only four of which are consistent as depicted Q) in Table 6.1. If K of the truth assignments are consistent, K sets of possible worlds W1 ,W2, WK are used to model the corresponding interpretations. A probability distribution is then defined over the possible worlds, where P, is the probability that W1 is the actual world, and Yj P1 = 1. The probability or belief in any sentence S can then be determined by summing the P1 over all W. in which Si is true. These notions can be represented using vector notation. We use the matrix V with L 