.6) oe (0.4) Suppose m, corresponds to our belief after observing a runny nose: {All, Flu, Cold} (0.8) () (0.2) Then we can compute their combination m, using the following table (in which we further abbreviate disease names), which we can derive using the numerator of the combination rule: {AFC} 08) 0 (0.2) {ECP} (0.6) | t C} (0.48) {FCP} (0.12) eo (04) | {4,EC} (32) @ (0.08) The four sets that are generated by taking all ways of intersecting an element of X and an element of Y are shown in the body of the table. The value of m, that the combination rule associates with each of them is computed by multiplying the values of m, and m, associated with the elements from which they were derived. Although it did not happen in this simple case, it is possible for the same set to be derived in more than one way during this intersection process. If that does occur, then to compute m, for that set, it is necessary to compute the sum of all the individual values that are generated for all the distinct ways in which the set is produced (thus the summation sign in the numerator of the combination formula). A slightly more complex situation arises when some of the'subsets created by the intersection operation are empty. Notice that we are guaranteed by the way we compute m, that the sum of all its individual values is 1 (assuming that the sums of all the values of m, and m, are |). If some empty subsets are created, though, then some of m, will be assigned to them. But from the fact that we assumed that 0 is exhaustive, we know that the true value of the hypothesis must be contained in some nonempty subset of 0. So we need to redistribute any belief that ends up in the empty subset proportionately across the nonempty ones. We do that with the scaling factor shown in the denominator of the combination formula. If no nonempty subsets are created, the scaling factor is 1, so we were able to ignore it in our first example. But to see how it works, let s add a new piece of evidence t