eci-
sion about the patient s food intake and insulin dose. Unlike the case of car repair, here the
dynamic aspects of the problem are essential. Blood sugar levels and measurements thereof
can change rapidly over time, depending on recent food intake and insulin doses, metabolic
activity, the time of day, and so on. To assess the current state from the history of evidence
andtopredict theoutcomes oftreatmentactions, wemustmodelthesechanges.
Thesame considerations arise in many other contexts, such as tracking the location of
a robot, tracking the economic activity of a nation, and making sense of a spoken orwritten
sequence ofwords. Howcandynamicsituations likethesebemodeled?
15.1.1 States and observations
We view the world as a series of snapshots, or time slices, each of which contains a set of
TIMESLICE
random variables, some observable and some not.1 For simplicity, we will assume that the
samesubsetofvariablesisobservableineachtimeslice(althoughthisisnotstrictlynecessary
inanything thatfollows). Wewilluse X todenote thesetofstate variables attime t,which
t
are assumed to be unobservable, and E to denote the set of observable evidence variables.
t
Theobservation attimetis E e forsomesetofvalues e .
t t t
Considerthefollowingexample: Youarethesecurityguardstationedatasecretunder-
ground installation. Youwanttoknowwhetherit srainingtoday, butyouronlyaccesstothe
outside worldoccurseachmorningwhenyouseethedirectorcominginwith,orwithout, an
umbrella. Foreachdayt,theset E thuscontainsasingleevidencevariable Umbrella or U
t t t
forshort(whethertheumbrellaappears),andtheset X containsasinglestatevariable Rain
t t
or R forshort(whetheritisraining). Otherproblemscaninvolve largersetsofvariables. In
t
thediabetes example,wemighthaveevidencevariables, suchas Measured Blood Sugar and
t
Pulse Rate , andstate variables, such as Blood Sugar and Stomach Contents . (Notice that
t t t
Blood Sugar and Measured Blood Sugar arenotthesamevariable; thisishowwedealwith
t t
noisymeasure