REALLY THINK?
Many philosophers have claimed that a machine that passes the Turing Test would still not
be actually thinking, but would be only a simulation of thinking. Again, the objection was
foreseen by Turing. Hecitesaspeechby Professor Geoffrey Jefferson(1949):
Notuntilamachinecouldwriteasonnetorcomposeaconcertobecauseofthoughtsand
emotionsfelt,andnotbythechancefallofsymbols,couldweagreethatmachineequals
brain thatis,notonlywriteitbutknowthatithadwrittenit.
Turing calls this theargument from consciousness the machine has to beaware ofits own
mentalstatesandactions. Whileconsciousness isanimportant subject, Jefferson s keypoint
actually relates to phenomenology, or the study of direct experience: the machine has to
actually feel emotions. Others focus on intentionality that is, the question of whether the
machine s purported beliefs, desires, and other representations are actually about some-
thingintherealworld.
Turing s response to the objection is interesting. He could have presented reasons that
machines can in fact be conscious (or have phenomenology, or have intentions). Instead, he
maintains that the question is just as ill-defined as asking, Can machines think? Besides,
why should we insist on a higher standard for machines than we do for humans? After all,
in ordinary life we never have any direct evidence about the internal mental states of other
humans. Nevertheless,Turingsays, Insteadofarguingcontinuallyoverthispoint,itisusual
tohavethepoliteconvention thateveryonethinks. Turing argues that Jefferson would be willing to extend the polite convention to ma-
chinesifonlyhehadexperiencewithonesthatactintelligently. Hecitesthefollowingdialog,
whichhasbecomesuchapartof AI soraltraditionthatwesimplyhavetoinclude it:
HUMAN: Inthefirstlineofyoursonnetwhichreads shall Icomparetheetoasummer s
day, wouldnota springday doaswellorbetter?
MACHINE: Itwouldn tscan.
HUMAN: Howabout awinter sday. Thatwouldscanallright.
MACHINE: Yes,butnobodywantstobecomparedtoawinter 