 that people often accomplish common goals. These stored operators and plans enable an understanding system to form a coherent representation of a text even when steps have been omitted, since they specify things that must have occurred in the complete story. For example, to understand this simple text about John, we need to make use of the fact that John was exploiting the operator USE (by A of P to perform G), which can be described as: USE(A, PG): precondition: KNOW-WHAT(A, LOCATION(P)) NEAR(A, P) HAS-CONTROL-OF(A, P) READY (P) postcondition: DONE(G) In other words, for A to use P to perform G, A must know the location of 2 A must be near P A must have control of P (for example, I cannot use a screwdriver that you are holding and refuse to give to me), and P must be ready for use (for example, I cannot use a broken screwdriver). In our story, John s plan for constructing the bike includes using a screwdriver. So he needs to establish the preconditions for that use. In particular, he needs to know the location of the screwdriver. To find that out, he makes use of the operator LOOK-FOR: LOOK-FOR(A, P): precondition: CAN-RECOGNIZE(A, P) postcondition: KNOW-WHAT(A, LOCATION(P)) A story understanding program can connect the goal of putting together the bike with the activity of looking for a screwdriver by recognizing that John is looking for a screwdriver so that he can use it as part of putting the bike together. Natural Language Processing 319 Often there are alternative operators or plans for achieving the same goal. For example, to find out where the screwdriver was, John could have asked someone. Thus the problem of constructing a coherent interpretation of a text or a discourse may involve considering many partial plans and operators. Plan recognition has served as the basis for many understanding programs. PAM [Wilensky, 1981] is an early example; it translated stories into a CD representation. Another such program was BORIS {Dyer, 1983]. BORIS used a memory s