fication algorithm. For a given set of formulas in the clause form generated by assic mplement the resolution method. Allow the user to choose between a set of strategies. Display the d Gs in graphical form. sackward Chaining. Implement a Prolog like backward chaining system, using a depth first strategy. 2S from a keyboard or file. The user should be able to save a program and read it from a file. Accept. m keyboard. Show the final proof for the goal (if possible graphically as a tree). One should be able t re that one solution, on giving a goal. Allow the use of Cut. ind the Most General Unifier for the following sets of formulae a, b , c, d , and e, f) (pays ?X ?Y money) A (gives ?Y?X? Object) (pays (brother ramesh) (uncle ?Z) money) (gives (uncle (cousin ?U)) (brother ?U) book) pla, x,f(o(y) KAMER constant p(z, h(z, w),f(w)) pla. x.f(q(x))) where a is a constant NNER Be SAREE ME NSSNEESNE TD ARTF AMEN TD Agent(Zz, father(Z2)) V Agent(Z 2, amar) Agent(father(Z3), Z3) V Agent(Z3, amar) ; dd the appropriate equality axioms and show using the Resolution metttd' tet Re tollowing set of tements is inconsistent. MM and are constants, while PM and MPP are functions. MM PM(!) Vc (MPP(c) PM(c)) MM MPP( ) 3iven the three statements in the preceding exercise show that the following statement follows, All p honest .eformulate the family database of Figure 12.15 without using equality. Generate a resolution proof tc answer to Does Arushi s mother have a cousin? How do you compare the two proofs, the one with 1 the one without? dd gender data to the database and define additional relationships for the above problem Uncle, A fe, Husband, Ancestor, Brother, Sister, Niece, Nephew, Grandson, and Grandmother. he definitions of the family relationships in the family database allow for a person to be defined as he ling or cousin. WxVy ((M(x) M(y)) 2 S(x, y)) VxvyVz (GP(x, y) A GP(x, z)) D Cly, z)) the above clauses so that queries like 3 xC(Abhay, x), and 3 xS(Abhay, x) will no wer x