cwetakeupin Chapter23,andsecond,
toacquire information fromwrittenlanguage, thefocusofthischapter.
There are over a trillion pages of information on the Web, almost all of it in natural
KNOWLEDGE language. An agent that wants to do knowledge acquisition needs to understand (at least
ACQUISITION
partially) the ambiguous, messy languages that humans use. We examine the problem from
the point of view of specific information-seeking tasks: text classification, information re-
trieval,andinformationextraction. Onecommonfactorinaddressingthesetasksistheuseof
languagemodels: modelsthatpredicttheprobability distribution oflanguage expressions.
LANGUAGEMODEL
22.1 LANGUAGE MODELS
Formallanguages,suchastheprogramminglanguages Javaor Python,havepreciselydefined
LANGUAGE language models. A language can be defined as a set of strings; print(2 2) is a
legal program inthe language Python, whereas 2) (2 print isnot. Since there are an
infinitenumberoflegalprograms,theycannotbeenumerated; insteadtheyarespecifiedbya
set of rules called a grammar. Formallanguages also have rules that define the meaning or
GRAMMAR
SEMANTICS semanticsofaprogram;forexample,therulessaythatthe meaning of 2 2 is4,and
themeaningof 1 0 isthatanerrorissignaled.
860
Section22.1. Language Models 861
Natural languages, such as English or Spanish, cannot be characterized as a definitive
set of sentences. Everyone agrees that Not to be invited is sad is a sentence of English,
butpeople disagree onthegrammaticality of Tobenotinvited issad. Therefore, itismore
fruitful todefineanatural language model asaprobability distribution oversentences rather
than a definitive set. That is, rather than asking if a string of words is or is not a memberof
thesetdefiningthelanguage, weinsteadaskfor P(S words) whatistheprobability that
arandom sentencewouldbewords.
Naturallanguagesarealsoambiguous. Hesawherduck canmeaneitherthathesaw
AMBIGUITY
a waterfowl belonging to her, or that he saw her move to evade something. Thus, again, we
