nt 2. 3. The register SUBJ is set to the value of 01 which is the list structure (NP(dog(big) DEF) returned from the NP reiscrs. DEF sign ihes that the determiner is definite. 4. In line 3. register TYPE is set to DCL (for declarative). 5. Control is transferred t', S I with the statement TO in line 4 and the input pointer is moved past the noun phrase to the verb-likes.- 6. If an auxiliary verb had been found at the beginning of the sentence instead of an NP, control would have been passed to line 5 where statements 5. 7. and 8 would have beer' executed. This would have resulted in registers At JX .'t' TYPE being set to the values (o and Q respectively. 254 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 7. At SI. a category test is made for a V. Since this succeeds (is 1). statements II, 12. and 13 are executed. This results in register AUX being set to nil, and register V being set to the contents of (i to give (V likes). Control is then passed to S4 and the input pointer is moved to the word 'the," 8. If the test for V had failed, and an auxiliary verb had been found, statements 14 and 15 would have been executed. 9. Since S4 is a terminal node, a sentence structure can be built there. This will be the case if the end of the sentence has been reached. If so, the BUILDQ function creates a list structure with first element S. followed by the values of the three registers TYPE, SUBJ. AUX, corresponding to the three plus (+) signs. These are then followed with VP and the contents of the V register. For example, with an input sentence of. The boy can whistle. the structure (S DCI. (NP (boy) DEF) (AUX can) (VP whistle)) would he constructed from the tour registers TYPE. SUB), AUX. and V. 10. Because more input words remain, the BUILDQ in line 22 is not executed, and control drops to the next line where a push is made to the lower NP network. As before, the NP succeeds with the structure (NP (boy (Small) DEF)) being returned as the value of (I Register VP is then set to the list 