Breeze PIT Breeze
START
1 2 3 4
Figure7.2 Atypicalwumpusworld.Theagentisinthebottomleftcorner,facingright.
known;orwecouldsaythatthetransitionmodelitselfisunknownbecausetheagentdoesn t
know which Forward actions are fatal in which case, discovering the locations of pits and
wumpuscompletestheagent sknowledge ofthetransition model.
Foran agent in the environment, the main challenge is its initial ignorance of the con-
figurationoftheenvironment; overcomingthisignorance seemstorequirelogicalreasoning.
Inmostinstancesofthewumpusworld,itispossiblefortheagenttoretrievethegoldsafely.
Occasionally, theagentmustchoosebetweengoinghomeempty-handedandriskingdeathto
find the gold. About 21 of the environments are utterly unfair, because the gold is in a pit
orsurrounded bypits.
Let us watch a knowledge-based wumpus agent exploring the environment shown in
Figure 7.2. We use an informal knowledge representation language consisting of writing
downsymbolsinagrid(asin Figures7.3and7.4).
The agent s initial knowledge base contains the rules of the environment, as described
previously; inparticular, itknowsthat itisin 1,1 and that 1,1 is asafe square; wedenote
thatwithan A and OK, respectively, insquare 1,1 .
Thefirstpercept is None,None,None,None,None , from which the agent can con-
clude that its neighboring squares, 1,2 and 2,1 , are free of dangers they are OK. Fig-
ure7.3(a)showstheagent sstateofknowledgeatthispoint.
A cautious agent will move only into a square that it knows to be OK. Let us suppose
theagentdecidestomoveforwardto 2,1 . Theagentperceivesabreeze(denotedby B )in 2,1 ,sotheremustbeapitinaneighboringsquare. Thepitcannotbein 1,1 ,bytherulesof
the game, so there must be apitin 2,2 or 3,1 orboth. The notation P? in Figure 7.3(b)
indicates apossible pitinthosesquares. Atthispoint, thereisonlyoneknownsquare thatis
OKandthathasnotyetbeenvisited. Sotheprudentagentwillturnaround, gobackto 1,1 ,
andthenproceed to 1,2 .
The agent perceives a stench in 1,2 , resulting in the s