n any change. The one after that is Ahneta with the pattern H, B, Y . None of the hypotheses in G4 recognize this pattern, and all of them say no to this example, and consequently must be removed. The general boundary then becomes empty, which means that the version set becomes empty. The hypothesis M, P, Y has to be removed, but its generalization can no longer be added to the specific boundary (because it has to be subsumed by some hypothesis in the general boundary). Consequently, after these six examples, the algorithm Candidate-Elimination has eliminated all hypotheses in the hypotheses space H. 18.4.2 Inductive Bias The two algorithms discussed above failed to characterise the concept of employees with very high salaries. The reason is that the hypothesis space that both explore is not rich enough to describe the target concept. The algorithm Find-S found the concept described by ?,?, Y which can be read as follows it does not matter how much experience the employee has or what the employee s education; as long as they are hands-on workers, they will have a very high salary. This is clearly not the case in the given database in Table 18.3. There are several examples of hands-on employees, Abdul, Anuragini and Azuma to name a few, who are not very high earners. A careful study of the database will reveal that the concept learnt is not accurate. In addition to being hands-on, the employee must be either a PhD or must have high experience. But our conjunctive hypothesis schema is unable to capture this notion of disjunctive description . Is there any justification of working with a restricted hypotheses space? Why not choose a representation that would allow us to express any concept? The answer is yes . The conjunctive schema allows us to express concept descriptions as conjunctions of constraints on attributes. What would happen if instead we allow the use of disjunction and negation as well? Then we could say things like Experience should be Medium or High or 