n), -* (equivalence or if and only if). Quantifiers. The two quantifier symbols are 3 (existential quantification) and V (universal quantification), where (3x) means for some x or there is an x and (Yx) means for all x. When there is no possibility of confusion, we will Omit the parentheses for brevity. Furthermore, when more than one variable is being quantified by the same quantifier such as (Vx) (Vy) (Vz) we abbreviate w -rigle quantifier and drop the parentheses to get Vxyz. Constants. Constants are fixed-value terms that belong to a given domain of discourse. They are denoted by numbers, words, and small letters near the beginning of the alphabet such as a, F,, c, 5.3, 21, flight102, and john. Variables. Variables are terms that can assume different values over a given domain. They are denoted by words and small letters near the end of the alphabet, such as aircraft-type, individuals, x, y, and z. Functions. Function symbols denote relations defined on a domain D. They map n elements (n ^ 0) to a single element of the domain. Symbols f, g. h, and words such as father-of, or age-of, represent functions. An n place (n-ary) function is written as f(:1, t2, - - - , t.) where the t are terms (constants, variables, or functions) defined over some domain. A 0-ary function is a constant. Predicates. Predicate symbols denote relations or functional mappings from the elements of a domain 0 to the values true or false. Capital letters and capitalized words such as P. Q, R, EQUAL, and MARRIED are used to represent predicates. Like functions, predicates may have n (n ^t 0) terms for arguments written as P011 t2l....i,), where the terms t,, i = I, 2.... . a are defined over some domain. A 0-aiy predicate is a proposition, that is, a constant predicate. Sec. 4.3 Syntax and Semantics for FOPL 57 Constants, variables, and functions are referred to as terms, and predicates are referred to as atomic formulas or atoms for short. Furthermore, when we want to refer to an atom or its