 some role in the anticipated inferences. Where possible, irrelevant objects should be omitted, but never at the risk of incompleteness. For example, in the current problem, the monkey, bananas, and chair are essential. Also needed is some reference object such as the floor or ceiling to establish the height relationship between monkey and bananas. Other objects such as windows, walls or doors are not relevant. The next step is to establish important properties of objects, relations between Sec. 4.7 The Resolution Principle them, and any assertions likely to be needed. These include such facts as the chair is tall enough to raise the monkey within reach of the bananas, the monkey is dexterous, the chair can be moved under the bananas, and so on. Again, all important properties, relations, and assertions should 1e, included and irrelevant ones omitted. Otherwise, unnecessary inference steps may be taken. The important factors for our problem are described below, and all items needed for the actual knowledge base are listed as axioms. These are the essential facts and rules. Although not explicitly indicated, all variables are universally quantified. Relevant factors for the problem j LI ' I (floor, chair, bananas, monkey} (x, Y. 4 (canjeach(x,y) x can reach y dexterous (xl x is a dexterous animal close(x,y) x is close to y geton(x.y) x can get on y under(x,y) x is under y tall(x) ; x is tall in.room(x) ,c is in the room can.move(x,y,z) x can move y near z canclimb(x,y)} x can climb onto y AXIOMS (insoom(bananas) in-room(chair) iruoom(monkey) dexterous(monkey) tall(chair) close(bananas,floor) can..move(monkey,chair,bananas) can..rl.imb(monkey,chair) (dexterous(x) & close(x.y) -. can-reach(x,y) ((get..on(x.y) & under(y,bananas) & tall(y) -. close(x,bananas)) ((in,room(x) & in-room(y) & inroom(z) & canmove(x,y,z)) close(z.floor) V undor(y,z)) (can..climb(x,y) -. get.on(x,y))) 70 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 Using the above axioms, a knowledge base can be written d