o, can be labeled. New constraints will arise from this labeling and these constraints can be propagated back to vertices that have already been labeled, so the set of possible labelings for them is further reduced. This process proceeds until all the vertices in the figure have been labeled. As anexample, consider the simple drawing shown 3 4 in Fig. 14.18(a). We can begin by labeling all the boundary edges, as/shown, in Fig. 14.18(b). Suppose 2 we then begin labeling vertices at vertex 1. The only 7 vertex label that is consistent with the known line 5 labels is 13. At vertex 2, the only consistent label is 6. 1 At each of the remaining boundary vertices, there is 8 also only one labeling choice. These labellings are (a) (b) shown in parentheses in Fig. 14.18(c). Now consider (13) (6) (13) 6) vertex 7. Just looking at vertex 7 itself, it would appear ; that any of the five FORK labelings is possible. But + from the only labeling we found for vertex 2, we know (6) (6) (8) that the line between vertices 2 and 7 must be labeled (13) + (13) +. This makes sense, since it obviously represents a (13) convex edge. Using this fact, we can eliminate four (13) (6) (6) of the possible FORK labels. Only label 8 is now : 7 ot . (c) (d) possible. The complete labeling just computed is . , ; shown in Fig. 14,18(d). Thus we see that by exploiting Fig. 14.18 A Simple Example of the Labeling Process constraints on vertex labelings, we have correctly identified vertex 7 as being formed by three convex edges. We can now specify in more detail this particular version of constraint propagation. Algorithm: Waltz 1. Find the lines at the border of the scene boundary and label them. These lines can be found by finding an outline such that no vertices are outside it. We do this first because this labeling will impose additional constraints on the other labelings in the figure. 2. Number the vertices of the figure to be analyzed. These numbers will correspond to the order in which the vertic