orksinclude Neural Computation,
Neural Networks, and the IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks. Specifically Bayesian
venues include the Valencia International Meetings on Bayesian Statistics and the journal
Bayesian Analysis.
EXERCISES
20.1 The data used for Figure 20.1 on page 804 can be viewed as being generated by h .
5
For each of the other four hypotheses, generate a data set of length 100 and plot the cor-
responding graphs for P(h d ,...,d ) and P(D lime d ,...,d ). Comment on
i 1 N N 1 1 N
yourresults.
828 Chapter 20. Learning Probabilistic Models
20.2 Supposethat Ann sutilitiesforcherryandlimecandiesare c and(cid:3) ,whereas Bob s
A A
utilities are c and (cid:3) . (But once Ann has unwrapped a piece of candy, Bob won t buy
B B
it.) Presumably, if Bob likes lime candies much more than Ann, it would be wise for Ann
tosellherbagofcandies oncesheissufficiently sureofitslimecontent. Ontheotherhand,
if Ann unwraps too many candies in the process, the bag will be worth less. Discuss the
problem of determining the optimal point at which to sell the bag. Determine the expected
utilityoftheoptimalprocedure, giventhepriordistribution from Section20.1.
20.3 Two statisticians go to the doctor and are both given the same prognosis: A 40 chance that the problem is the deadly disease A, and a 60 chance of the fatal disease B.
Fortunately, thereareanti-A andanti-B drugs thatareinexpensive, 100 effective, and free
of side-effects. The statisticians have the choice of taking one drug, both, or neither. What
willthefirststatistician(anavid Bayesian)do? Howaboutthesecondstatistician,whoalways
usesthemaximumlikelihood hypothesis?
The doctor does some research and discovers that disease B actually comes in two
versions, dextro-B and levo-B, which are equally likely and equally treatable by the anti-B
drug. Nowthattherearethreehypotheses, whatwillthetwostatisticians do?
20.4 Explainhowtoapplytheboostingmethodof Chapter18tonaive Bayeslearning. Test
theperformance oftheresulting alg