 functionally and temporally. This implies planning separately for different subsystems and also separating deliberation and action at different time scales. The system is partitioned along the following lines. Functional Indicating the state variables relevant for deliberation and action. This enables a logical partitioning of different subsystems. Temporal Indicating the look-ahead window for which planning is done. This separates long term goals from short term reactions to the environment. Timing The latency allowed for the deliberation process to complete. Some systems may have to react rapidly, whereas others may have more time available for planning. The architecture of TREX (figure adapted from (McGann et al., 2008)) is shown in Figure 10.30. It constitutes of four teleo-reactors24 (see (Nilsson, 1994)) communicating with each other and vehicle controller as shown. T-REX Agent Mission manager J LJ Ea E avigator operator 7 LJ Executive AUV Functional Layer FIGURE 10.30 The T-REX agent is made up of four teleo-reactors and controls the AUV functional layer. Commands flow along the thick arrows and observations flow along the thin arrows. The Mission Manager is the high level system with the long term scientific and operational goals of the mission. Its temporal scope is the entire mission, and it may take minutes for deliberation. It generates directives for the Science Operator and the Navigator. The Science Operator refines the high level directives it receives from the Mission Manager and may also make shorter term decisions based on the science goals. For example, it may instruct the navigator to adopt a particular motion trajectory useful for collecting data. Its temporal scope may be of the order of a minute and its deliberation may be required to be done in the order of a second. The Navigator is similar to the Science Operator in temporal scope and latency but focuses on the task of navigation. It receives directives from both the Mission Manager and t