thatexist. Wewillcallmodelsdefined
RELATIONAL in this way relational probability models, or RP Ms.7 The most significant difference be-
PROBABILITYMODEL
tween the semantics of RP Msand the database semantics introduced in Section 8.2.8 is that
RP Msdo not make the closed-world assumption obviously, assuming that every unknown
factisfalsedoesn t makesenseinaprobabilistic reasoning system!
Whentheunderlyingassumptionsofdatabasesemanticsfailtohold,RP Mswon twork
well. Forexample,abookretailermightusean as a constant symbol to name each book, even though a given logical book (e.g., Gone
With the Wind ) may have several tions across multiple thesamebook. (Notethatwearenotreifying theindividual copiesofthebook,whichmight
be necessary for used-book sales, car sales, and so on.) Worse still, each customer is iden-
tified by a login ID, but a dishonest customer may have thousands of IDs! In the computer
securityfield,thesemultiple IDsarecalledsibylsandtheirusetoconfound areputation sys-
SIBYL
tem is called a sibyl attack. Thus, even a simple application in a relatively well-defined,
SIBYLATTACK
EXISTENCE online domain involves both existence uncertainty (what are the real books and customers
UNCERTAINTY
IDENTITY underlying the observed data) and identity uncertainty (which symbol really refer to the
UNCERTAINTY
sameobject). Weneedtobitethebullet anddefineprobability modelsbasedonthestandard
semantics of first-order logic, for which the possible worlds vary in the objects they contain
andinthemappings fromsymbolstoobjects. Section14.6.3showshowtodothis.
7 Thenamerelationalprobabilitymodelwasgivenby Pfeffer(2000)toaslightlydifferentrepresentation,but
theunderlyingideasarethesame.
542 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
14.6.2 Relationalprobability models
Like first-order logic, RP Mshave constant, function, and predicate symbols. (It turns out to
be easier to view predicates as functions that return true or false.) We will also assume a
typesignatureforeachfunction,thatis,aspe