ances it and i2. In computer vision systems, determining the required correspondence between the two displaced images is perhaps the most difficult part in determining the disparity. foci length of lens dstnce to object P P object ',, it are the two Image, , Figure 14.13 Disparity in stereoscopic systems. 299 Intermediate-Level Image processing Sec. 14.3 Figure 14.14 Example of optical flow in a scene. Corresponding pixel groupings in the two images must be located to determine the disparity from which the distance can be estimated. In practice, methods based on correlation, gray-level matching. template matching, and edge contour comparisons have been used to estimate the disparity between stereo images. l scene analysis which Optic flow is an alternative approach to threedimen Si Ofla is based on the relative motion of a sensor and objects in the scene. If a sensor is moving (or objects are moving past a sensor), the apparent continuous flow of the objects relative to the sensor is known as optical flow. Distances can be estimated from the change in flow or relative velocity of the sensor and the objects. For example, in Figure 14.14 if the velocity of the sensor is constant, the change in is proportional to the change in size of the distance dx between points x and x2 power lines h, through the relation dx/dt=k(dhldt) This relationship is equivalent to the change in size of regular flowing objects with aistance from the observer such as highways, railroad tracks, or power lines, as depicted in Figure 14.14, 14.3 INTERMEDIATE-LEVEL IMAGE PROCESSING The next major level of analysis builds on the low-level or early processing steps described above. It concentrates on segmenting the image space into larger global egions and boundaries formed from structures using homogeneous features in pixel r pieces of edges discovered during the low-level processing. This level requires that pieces of edges be combined into contiguous contours which form the outline of objects, pa