the matching pars of the inference cycle. 15.10. Using the knowledge base of Problem 1.7, simulate three match-select-execute cycles for a query which uses several rules andior facts. 15.11. Explain the difference between forward and backward chaining and under what conditions each would be best to use for a given set of problems. 15,12. Under what conditions would it make sense to use both for\\ Give an example where both are used. 15.13. Explain why you think associative networks were never very popular forms of knowledge representations in expert systems architectures. 15.14. Suppose you are diagnosing automobile engines using a system having a frame type of architecture similar to PIP. Show how a trigger condition might be satisfied for the distributor Ignition system when it is learned that the spark at all spark plugs is weak. 15.15. Give the advantages of expert system architectures based on decision trees over those of production rules. What are the main disadvantages? 15.16. Two of the main problems in validating the knowledge contained in the knowledge bases of expert systems are related to completeness and consistency, that is, whether or not a system has an adequate breadth of knowledgeto solve the class of problems it was intended to solve and whether or not the knowledge is consistent. Is it easier to check decision tree architectures or production rule systems for completeness and consistency? Give supporting information for your conclusions. 15.17. Give three examples of applications for which blackboard architectures are well suited. 15.18. Give three examples of applications for which the use of analogical architectures would be suitable in expert systems. 15.19. Consider a simple fully connected neural network containing three input nodes and a single output node. The inputs to the network are the eight possible binary patterns 000. 001 .....Ill. Find weights u for which the network can differentiate between the inputs by producing three distinct 