be well behaved over the domain, there is a need to look for alternate methods to solve such problems. The simplest of them is to increase the memory available by a constant amount, so that more than one option can be kept open. This method is known as the Beam Search, described in a later section. But before that, we review the transformation our original problem statement has undergone, and look at an alternate search space formulation. 3.5 Solution Space Search The problems we have seen so far have been formulated as constructive search problems. In a constructive search, we incrementally build the solution. A move consists of extending a given partial solution, and the search terminates when the goal state is found. For example, in the nqueens problem, one could start with an empty board, and place one queen at a time. Constructive searches can be both global as well as local. The term global and local refer to the regions of the search space accessed by the algorithm. The algorithm Best First Search is global, in the sense that it keeps the entire search space in its scope. The Hill Climbing algorithm, on the other hand, is local, because it is confined only to extending one given path. Another way to formulate a search problem is with perturbation search. In perturbation search, each node in the search space is a candidate solution. A move involves perturbation of a candidate solution to produce a new candidate solution. For example, in the n-queens problem, the search might start with a random placement of queens, and then each move may change the position of one or more than one queen. Perturbation searches may be local or global, depending upon whether the algorithm explores the entire search space or only a part of it. Most implementations work with searches looking for local improvements. Hill Climbing, the simplest of perturbation search algorithms, does precisely this, and stops when it cannot find a better candidate. Local perturbation search methods a