eduction in turn, places a new restriction on BC, permitting the elimination of one C label. since BC must now he labeled as a -f only. This leaves the remaining C labels as 4. Moving now to Junction D, we see that of the six possible D lahelings. only three satisfy the BD constraint of a - or a down-arrow. Therefore, the remaining permissible lahelings for D are now Continuing with the above procedure, it will be found that further label eliminations are not possible since all constraints have been satisfied. The above process is completed by finding the different combinations of unique labelings that can be assigned to the figure. This can be accomplished through a tree search process. A simple enumeration of the remaining labels shows that it is possible to find only 312 Visual Image Under Standing Chap. 14 three different labelings. We leave the labeling as an exercise at the end of this chapter. The process of constraint satisfaction described here has been called Waltz filtering. It is a special form of a.more general solution process called relaxation in which constraints are iteratively reduced or eliminated until equilibrium is reached. Such processes can be very effective in reducing large search spaces tb manageable ones. Template Matching Template matching is the process of comparing patterns found in an image with prestored templates that are already named. The matching, process may occur at lower levels using individual or groups of pixels using correlation techniques or at higher image processing levels using labeled region structures. Comparisons between object and template may be based on an exact or on a partial match; and, the matching process may use whole or component pieces when comparing the two. Rigid or flexible templates may also be used. (An example of flexible template matching was described in Section 10.5, Partial Matching, where the idea of a rubber mask template was introduced.) Template matching can be effective only when the search 