Finally, our overall picture of knowledge Cannot be complete without also knowing the meaning of closely relaed concepts such as understanding. learning. thinking. remembering, and reasoning. These concepts all depend on the use of knowledge. But then just what is learning, or reasoning. or understanding' Here too we will find dictionary definitions lacking. And, as in the case of knowledge and intelligence, we cannot give scientific definitions for any of these terms either. But, we will gain a deeper unders Lding and appreciation for the concepts thrcugh our study of Al. In particular, we will see the difficulties encountered in attempting to implement such concepts in computer programs. For in programs. one must be precise. The Importance of Knowledge Al has given new meaning and importance to knowledge. Now, for the first time, it is possible to "package" specialized knowledge and :..ell it with a system that can use it to reason and draw conclusions. The potential of this important development is only now beginning to be realized. Imagine being able to purchase an untiring, reliable advisor that gives high level professional advice in specialized areas, such as manufacturing techniques, sound financial strategies, ways to improve one's health, top marketing sectors and strategies, optimal farming plans. and many other important matters. We are not far from the practical realization of this, and those who create Sec. 2.3 Knowledge-Based Systems 13 and market such systems will have more than just an economic advantage over the rest of the world. As noted in Chapter I. the Japanese recognized the potential offered with these knowledge systems. They were the first to formally proceed with a plan to commit substantial resources toward an accelerated program of development for super-computers and knowledge-based systems. In their excellent hook on the Fifth Generation. Feigenbaum and Mc Corduck (1983) present convincing arguments for the importance that should be asc