phenomena. Another approach to psychological modeling draws its inspiration from the physical organization of the human brain itself. While individual neurons are quite slow compared to digital computer circuits, there are vast numbers of these richly interconnected components, and they all operate concurrently. If we wish to model the brain or use it as a source of ideas for AI, we must consider the powers and constraints imposed by the brain s architecture at the neural level. Unfortunately, we do not understand very well how neurons are wired in the brain, so modeling at this level is difficult. But we return to this idea in Chapter 18, where we describe the use of neural networks as a way of representing and using knowledge. 16.2 PARALLELISM IN REASONING SYSTEMS Al programs consume significant time and space resources. It is therefore important that AI algorithms make use of advances in parallel computation. In this section, we describe several ways of doing this without substantially changing the programs that we write. Then, in the next section, we explore ways in which techniques from parallel and distributed computing can be used in the overall design of AI systems. 16.2.1 Parallelizing Al Architectures As we mentioned above, production systems have both sequential and parallel aspects. The question arises, how much speedup can we expect from parallel processing? There are several sources of parallel speedup in production systems: Match-level parallelism, in which multiple processors are used to speed up the handling of individual match-resolve-act cycles Production-level parallelism, in which all of the productions match themselves against working memory in parallel Condition-level parallelism, in which all of the conditions of a single production are matched in parallel Action-level parallelism, in which all of the actions of a single production are executed in parallel e Task-level parallelism, in which several cycles are executed simultaneously The amoun