ssfu L real-world systems could be built. Because of this importance, a significant amount of coverage is devoted to knowledge in this text. We will be looking at the important roles it plays in all of the subtields of Al. In this chapter. we attempt to set the stage fdr what follows by gaining sonic familiarity with knowledge, and a better appreciation of its power. As noted in Chapter I, the whole text is in a sense all about knowledge, and is organized to reflect the way it dominates thinking and the uirection of research in the field of Al 2.1, INTRODUCTION Early researchers in At believed that the best approach to solutions was through the development of general purpose problem solvers, that is, systems powerful enough to prove a theorem in geometry. to perform a complex robotics task, or to develop a plan to complete a sequence of Intricate operations. To demonstrate their theorics. several systems were developed including several logic theorem powers and a general problem solver system (described in Chapter 9). All of the systems developed during this period proved to be impotent as 9 10 Knowledge: General Concepts Chap. 2 general problem solvers. They required much hand tailoring of problem descriptions and ad hoc guidance in their solution steps. The approaches they used proved to be too general to be effective. The systems became effective only when the solution methods incorporated domain specific rules and facts. In other words, they became effective as problem solvers only when specific knowledge was brought to bear on the problems. The realization that specific knowledge was needed to solve difficult problems gradually brought about the use of domain specific knowledge as an integral part of a system. It eventually led to what we now know as knowledge-based systems. Since the acceptance of this important fact, successful problem solvers in many domains have been developed. 2.2 DEFINITION AND IMPORTANCE OF KNOW%,EDGE Knowledge can be defined as the body