ligence is a mirage, if you achieve it, it ceases to make you feel so. As somebody has aptly put it - Al is Artificial Intelligence till it is achieved; after which the acronym reduces to Already Implemented. 4 Artificial Intelligence ananacarsican One must also appreciate the fact that comprehending the concept of AI also aids us in understanding how natural intelligence works. Though a complete comprehension of its working yay remain a mirage. the very attempt will definitely assist in unfolding mysteries one by one. 1.1 THE AI PROBLEMS What then are some of the problems contained within Al? Much of the early work in the field focused on formal tasks, such as game playing and theorem proving. Samuel wrote a checkers-playing program that not only played games with opponents but also used its experience at those games to improve its later performance. Chess also received a good deal of attention. The Logic Theorist was an early attempt to prove mathematical theorems. It was able to prove several theorems from the first chapter of Whitehead and Russell's Principia Mathematica, Gelernter s theorem prover explored another area of mathematics: geometry. Game playing and theorem proving share the property that people who do them well are considered to be displaying intelligence. Despite this, it appeared initially that computers could perform well at those tasks simply by being fast at exploring a large number of solution paths and then selecting the best one. It was thought that this process required very little knowledge and could therefore be programmed easily. As we will see later, thisy assumption turned out to be false since no computer is fast enough to overcome the combinatorial explosion generated by most problems. Another early foray into AJ focused on the sort of problem solving that we do every day when we decide how to get to work in the morning, often called commonsense reasoning. It includes reasoning about physical objects and their relationships to each 