and (run) to do the same in an infinite loop. Include the following set of actions in rules. (1) Read a file containing WMEs, (2) Print a message on the screen (or a file), and (3) Halt stop the cycle. In a debug mode, it should show the Conflict Set after each step. Implement two conflict-resolution strategies. 9. Write the most appropriate right-hand side for the following rule: p what-does-this -rule-do (inst number n -(inst number m a assert . . . 10. Given a set of three WMEs of the form, (Marks subject: physics student: satish scored: 96) separately for physics, chemistry and math, and one WME for each student initialized to values as shown below, (Total name: satish rank: 0 totalMarks: 1) Write a set of production rules to sum up the marks for each student and store it in the attribute tota Marks: of the Total WME, and assign a rank to each student in the attribute rank: based on marks. The number of students is not known and students with the same total marks may be ranked arbitrarily. 11. Write the conditions for the rules in English, and construct a Rete net for the following set of rules: Rule 1: (p fare-infant inst person x type child age of x cis 5) inst person y x y not equal to x age of y is 5) traveling person x with y te xyz ) some Right-HYand Side) ) Rule 2: (p fare-child inst person x type child age of x cis 12) age of x is 5) traveling person x te anywhere: ) some Right-Hand Side)) Rule 3: (p fare-student inst person x type student) age of x is 25) traveling person x te heome school ) jor some Right-HYand Side) ) Rule 4: (p fare-games inst person x type sportsman) traveling person x tc games) some Right-Hand Side) ) Rule 5: (p fare-azjuna inst person x type sportsman) traveling person x te anywheres! ) awardee person x axarc Arjuna som2 Right-Hand Side)) 12. Construct a Rete net for the following set of rules: age cf y is agel ageX y is olcer than x 4 make (tau of z is y )) Bule 3: (rp younger-Than age cf x is ageX age cf y is ageY ageX make (you