entries that can match <ATTRIBUTE> include CLASS, COMMANDER. FUEL. TYPE. BEAM. LENGTH, and so on. LIFER can also accommodate elliptical (incomplete) inputs. Given the query is the length of the Kennedy?" a subsequent query consisting of the abbreviated form "of the Enterprise?" will elicit a proper response (see also the third and fourth, example queries above). Semantic grammars are suitable for use in systems with restricted grammars since computation is limited. They become unwieldy when used with general purpose language understanding systems, however. 12.4 BASIC PARSING TECHNIQUES Before the meaning of a sentence can be determined, the meanings of its constituent parts must be established. This requires a knowledge of the structure of the sentence. the mcanings of individual words and how the words modify each other. The process of determining the syntactical structure of a sentence is knowh as parsing. Pa;sing is the process of arrzag a sentence by taking it apar' word-byword and deterrniairg its structur from its constituent parts and subsatis. The structure of a sentence can be represented with a.syntactic tree or a list as duwribcd in the previous section. The parsing process is basically the inverse of the sentence generation process since it involves finding a grammatical sentence structue from an input string. When given an input string, the lexical pans or terms (root words) must first he identified by type, and then the role they play in a sentence must he determined. These parts can then be combined successively into larger units until a complete tree structure has been completed. To determine the meaning f a word. a parser must have access to a lexicon. When the parser selects a word from the input stream it locates the word in the lexicon and obtains the word's possible function and other features, including semantic information. This information is then used in building a tree or other representation structure. The general parsing process is illust