mputer-aideddesign
(CAD)system,oritcouldbevagueconstraints,suchasthefactthathumaneyesareusually5
to7cmapart. Arenderingmodeldescribesthephysical,geometric,andstatisticalprocesses
RENDERINGMODEL
that produce thestimulus from theworld. Rendering models are quite accurate, but they are
ambiguous. For example, a white object under low light may appear as the same color as a
black object underintense light. Asmall nearby object maylook thesame asa large distant
object. Without additional evidence, we cannot tell if the image that fills the frame is a toy
Godzillaorarealmonster.
Ambiguity can be managed with prior knowledge we know Godzilla is not real, so
the image must be a toy or by selectively choosing to ignore the ambiguity. For example,
the vision system for an autonomous car may not be able to interpret objects that are far in
the distance, but the agent can choose to ignore the problem, because it is unlikely to crash
intoanobjectthatismilesaway.
928
Section24.1. Image Formation 929
Adecision-theoretic agent isnot theonlyarchitecture that canmakeuseofvision sen-
sors. Forexample, fruit flies (Drosophila) are in part reflex agents: they have cervical giant
fibersthatformadirectpathwayfromtheirvisualsystemtothewingmusclesthatinitiatean
escape response an immediate reaction, without deliberation. Flies and many other flying
animals make used of a closed-loop control architecture to land on an object. The visual
system extracts an estimate of the distance to the object, and the control system adjusts the
wingmusclesaccordingly,allowingveryfastchangesofdirection,withnoneedforadetailed
modeloftheobject.
Compared to the data from other sensors (such as the single bit that tells the vacuum
robot that it has bumped into a wall), visual observations are extraordinarily rich, both in
the detail they can reveal and in the sheer amount of data they produce. A video camera
for robotic applications might produce a million 24-bit pixels at 60 Hz; a rate of 10 GB per
minute. The 