e 500. Implementashopping agentthatacceptsdescriptions inthislanguage.
12.25 Ourdescriptionof Internetshoppingomittedtheall-importantstepofactuallybuying
the product. Provide a formal logical description of buying, using event calculus. That is,
define the sequence of events that occurs when a buyer submits a credit-card purchase and
theneventually getsbilledandreceivestheproduct.
13
QUANTIFYING
UNCERTAINTY
Inwhichweseehowanagentcantameuncertainty withdegrees ofbelief.
13.1 ACTING UNDER UNCERTAINTY
Agents may need to handle uncertainty, whether due to partial observability, nondetermin-
UNCERTAINTY
ism, ora combination of the two. An agent may never know for certain what state it s in or
whereitwillendupafterasequence ofactions.
Wehaveseenproblem-solvingagents(Chapter4)andlogicalagents(Chapters7and11)
designed tohandleuncertainty bykeeping trackofabeliefstate arepresentation oftheset
of all possible world states that it might be in and generating a contingency plan that han-
dleseverypossibleeventualitythatitssensorsmayreport duringexecution. Despiteitsmany
virtues, however,thisapproach hassignificantdrawbacks whentakenliterally asarecipefor
creating agentprograms: When interpreting partial sensor information, a logical agent must consider every log-
ically possible explanation for the observations, no matter how unlikely. This leads to
impossiblelargeandcomplexbelief-state representations. Acorrect contingent plan that handles every eventuality can grow arbitrarily large and
mustconsiderarbitrarily unlikely contingencies. Sometimes there is no plan that is guaranteed to achieve the goal yet the agent must
act. Itmusthavesomewaytocomparethemeritsofplansthatarenotguaranteed.
Suppose, for example, that an automated taxi!automated has the goal of delivering a pas-
senger to the airport on time. The agent forms a plan, A , that involves leaving home 90
90
minutes before the flight departs and driving at a reasonable speed. Even though the airport
is only about 5 miles a