serving the discrepancy in the two values at F, in Figure 17.12. One value F, 12, is based on the assumptions Ab(M,), Ab(M2) and 7Ab(A,), which state that the corresponding components are working correctly and not broken. The other value F,; 10 is an observation, and is based on no assumption. The cumulative assumptions from the two ways of arriving at the value are inconsistent together. That is 7Ab(M,), 7Ab(M2) and 7Ab(A;) cannot be true at the same time. We represent this fact by the corresponding set 7Ab(M,), 7Ab(M2), 7Ab(A,) , which in the abbreviated form that we have been using is M,, Mo, A1 . The second conflict A;, Ao, M,, M3 is arrived at two ways of generating the value of F . The first is the observation Fo 12, which has no assumptions. The second Fy, 10 is derived as follows. F, D, E, Assumption: 74b(4,) where E, A; B; Assumption: 46(M3) and D, E, because D, C, and C, E; and , F,-D, Assumption: 46(4)) and F, 10 Observation and D, A,xB, Assumption: 74b(M,) and A, 3 and B, 2 and 4; 3 and B; 2 The statement Dz E, is not based on any assumption because our model assumes that only components can fail and not conduits. The cumulative set of assumptions in the reasoning above gives us the conflict A,, Az, M;, M3 . Observe that this conflict could also have been derived by comparing two ways of arriving at a different value of C2. See Exercise 12. At the same time, we treated the value at F differently from the value at F,. This was because a symmetric treatment, the observed value and the one derived from M2, M3 and Az are the same, and would not lead to a conflict set. The manner in which the second conflict has been derived gives us a clue of how to go about finding (minimal) conflicts. The key is that one must find two ways of deriving different values of some variable, and enumerate the components that played a role in the two derivations. The set of components, or more precisely the assumptions that they are not broken, forms a conflict set. In the proces