t and back with his frantic pedalling. If we required that information, we would need a considerably more complex model, requiring much more computation. When doing modelling, we have to make a trade-off between the amount of detail in the model that the computation will work with and the accuracy of the predictions, and usually we only choose the level of detail that is sufficient for our requirements. One area where models have been becoming more and more complex is in weather forecasting. We are no longer content with farmers heuristics; instead, we build increasingly detailed models in powerful computers feeding it data collected from a large number of locations on the earth; thus enabling the metrological departments to forecast more accurately whether the next weekend will be a suitable day to spend outdoors or not. 12 Can we construct models that will be perfectly accurate? The scientist Edward Fredkin postulated that our universe is in fact a simulation (Wright, 1989). As a corollary, it follows that while it would be possible to construct such a model and run it, it could only make predictions as fast as (actual) reality. That is, even if we could implement a perfect model, it would make perfect predictions but not before they actually happen, because the model would have to replicate what is happening in reality . Human beings, on the other hand, have no time for complex models. We do not use rocket science to make predictions in our daily lives. The typical human being senses pangs of hunger and heads towards the refrigerator, or towards the local market to buy some fruit. In fact, very rarely are our day-to-day models mathematical. Instead, they are what we now Call qualitative models. We know that as we eat more, our hunger becomes less, eventually leading to a point of satiation. When we pump air into our bicycles, we do not reason with numbers or formulas. We pump till we fee that the pressure is enough. We do not monitor the temperature of water in a