tal, development. Presumably, the agent
could start out with nothing, performing inductions in vacuo like a good little pure induc-
tion program. But once it has eaten from the Tree of Knowledge, it can no longer pursue
such naive speculations and should use its background knowledge to learn more and more
effectively. Thequestion isthenhowtoactuallydothis.
778 Chapter 19. Knowledgein Learning
19.2.1 Somesimpleexamples
Letusconsidersomecommonsenseexamplesoflearningwithbackgroundknowledge. Many
apparently rational cases of inferential behavior in the face of observations clearly do not
followthesimpleprinciples ofpureinduction. Sometimes one leaps to general conclusions after only one observation. Gary Larson
once drew a cartoon in which a bespectacled caveman, Zog, is roasting his lizard on
the end of a pointed stick. He is watched by an amazed crowd of his less intellectual
contemporaries,whohavebeenusingtheirbarehandstoholdtheirvictualsoverthefire.
Thisenlightening experience isenough toconvince thewatchers ofageneral principle
ofpainless cooking. Orconsiderthecaseofthetravelerto Brazilmeetingherfirst Brazilian. Onhearinghim
speak Portuguese, she immediately concludes that Brazilians speak Portuguese, yeton
discovering that his name is Fernando, she does not conclude that all Brazilians are
called Fernando. Similar examples appear in science. For example, when a freshman
physics student measures the density and conductance of a sample of copper at a par-
ticular temperature, she is quite confident in generalizing those values to all pieces of
copper. Yetwhenshemeasuresitsmass,shedoesnotevenconsiderthehypothesisthat
allpieces ofcopperhave that mass. Ontheotherhand, itwouldbequite reasonable to
makesuchageneralization overallpennies. Finally, consider the case of a pharmacologically ignorant but diagnostically sophisti-
cated medical student observing a consulting session between a patient and an expert
internist. After a series of questions and answers, the expert t