is spaces, the number of elements in the S-set or G-set may grow
exponentiallyinthenumberofattributes,eventhoughefficientlearningalgorithmsexist
forthosehypothesis spaces.
To date, no completely successful solution has been found for the problem of noise. The
problem ofdisjunction canbeaddressed byallowing onlylimitedformsofdisjunction orby
GENERALIZATION including a generalization hierarchy of more general predicates. For example, instead of
HIERARCHY
using thedisjunction Wait Estimate(x,30-60) Wait Estimate(x, 60), wemight use the
single literal Long Wait(x). The set of generalization and specialization operations can be
easilyextendedtohandlethis.
The pure version space algorithm was first applied in the Meta-DENDRAL system,
which was designed to learn rules for predicting how molecules would break into pieces in
a mass spectrometer (Buchanan and Mitchell, 1978). Meta-DENDRAL was able to generate
rulesthatweresufficientlynoveltowarrantpublicationinajournalofanalyticalchemistry the first real scientific knowledge generated by a computer program. It was also used in the
elegant LE Xsystem(Mitchelletal.,1983),whichwasabletolearntosolvesymbolicintegra-
tion problems by studying its own successes and failures. Although version space methods
are probably not practical in most real-world learning problems, mainly because of noise,
theyprovideagooddealofinsight intothelogicalstructure ofhypothesis space.
Section19.2. Knowledgein Learning 777
Prior
knowledge
Knowledge-based
Observations Hypotheses Predictions
inductive learning
Figure 19.6 A cumulative learning process uses, and adds to, its stock of background
knowledgeovertime.
19.2 KNOWLEDGE IN LEARNING
Theprecedingsectiondescribedthesimplestsettingforinductivelearning. Tounderstandthe
role of prior knowledge, we need to talk about the logical relationships among hypotheses,
exampledescriptions, andclassifications. Let Descriptions denotetheconjunction ofallthe
exampledescriptions inthetrainingset,andlet Classification