 tree decomposition, then the
problem can be solved in O(ndw 1) time. Hence, CS Ps with constraint graphs of bounded
tree width are solvable in polynomial time. Unfortunately, finding the decomposition with
minimaltreewidthis NP-hard,butthereareheuristic methodsthatworkwellinpractice.
Sofar, wehave looked atthestructure oftheconstraint graph. There canbeimportant
structureinthevaluesofvariablesaswell. Considerthemap-coloringproblemwithncolors.
Foreveryconsistent solution, there isactually aset of n!solutions formed bypermuting the
colornames. Forexample,onthe Australiamapweknowthat WA,NT,and SAmustallhave
different colors, but there are 3! 6 ways to assign the three colors to these three regions.
This is called value symmetry. We would like to reduce the search space by a factor of
VALUESYMMETRY
SYMMETRY-
n!by breaking the symmetry. Wedo this by introducing a symmetry-breaking constraint.
BREAKING
CONSTRAINT
Forourexample, we might impose an arbitrary ordering constraint, NT SA WA, that
requires the three values tobeinalphabetical order. Thisconstraint ensures that only one of
then!solutions ispossible: NT blue,SA green,WA red .
For map coloring, it was easy to find a constraint that eliminates the symmetry, and
in general it is possible to find constraints that eliminate all but one symmetric solution in
polynomial time, but it is NP-hard to eliminate all symmetry among intermediate sets of
values during search. In practice, breaking value symmetry has proved to be important and
effectiveonawiderangeofproblems.
Section6.6. Summary 227
6.6 SUMMARY Constraintsatisfaction problems(CS Ps)represent astatewithasetofvariable value
pairsandrepresent theconditions forasolutionbyasetofconstraints onthevariables.
Manyimportantreal-world problemscanbedescribed as CS Ps. Anumberofinferencetechniquesusetheconstraintstoinferwhichvariable valuepairs
areconsistent andwhicharenot. Theseinclude node,arc,path,andk-consistency. Backtrackingsearch,aformofdepth-firstsearch,iscommonlyused