component device is faulty, the task of diagnosis then is to search through various subsets of components to identify a minimal set, which if assumed to be broken would explain, or be consistent with, the observations. Given an observation OBS, Reiter defines the notion of a Conflict Set (CS) as a set of components of which at least one must be broken. That is, it is the set of suspects that could be causing the observed discrepancy. We can then define a conflict set as follows. A set CS SCOMP is a conflict set with respect to an observation OBS iff, SD VU -AB(e) c Ee CS U OBSE L Clearly, a superset of a conflict set would also be a conflict set. A minimal conflict set is a conflict set that does not have a proper subset that is a conflict set. If one has a collection of minimal conflict sets, then one would need to pick a hitting set, such that every conflict set has at least one member in the hitting set. Such a hitting set would be a candidate diagnosis if it does not have a proper subset that is a hitting set. As Reiter has observed in his seminal paper, the task of diagnosis can be seen as a task of default reasoning. Seen from the perspective of Circumscription (see Section 17.1.2), given a system description and a set of observations, the task is to find a minimal set of Ab(x) predicates such that the set of sentences is consistent. A set of components A COMP is a diagnosis, if A is a minimal set such that, SD U OBS U -AB(c) c COMP A is consistent. In other words, SD U OBS U -Ab(e) c COMP A HL A brute force approach would try the different subsets in increasing order of size. However, given that we know which of the output terminals has a discrepancy, and know the connection topology of the device, one can surely do better than search blindly. 17.3.3 The General Diagnostic Engine Very often, one observation may not be enough to pinpoint the fault. One may have to generate more observations. This could be done either by changing the input parameters if possibl