obust matching procedures for the correspondence problem, accompa-
niedbynumericallystablealgorithmsforsolvingforrelativeorientations andscenedepth,is
oneofthesuccessstoriesofcomputervision. Resultsfromonesuchapproachdueto Tomasi
and Kanade(1992)areshownin Figures24.18and24.19.
24.4.4 Texture
Earlierwesaw how texture wasused forsegmenting objects. Itcan also beused toestimate
distances. In Figure 24.20weseethatahomogeneous texture inthescene results invarying
textureelements, ortexels, intheimage. Allthepaving tilesin(a)areidentical inthescene.
TEXEL
Theyappeardifferent intheimagefortworeasons:
952 Chapter 24. Perception
(a) (b)
Figure24.19 (a)Three-dimensionalreconstructionofthelocationsoftheimagefeatures
in Figure24.18,shownfromabove.(b)Therealhouse,takenfromthesameposition.
1. Differencesinthedistancesofthetexelsfromthecamera. Distantobjectsappearsmaller
byascaling factorof1 Z.
2. Differences in the foreshortening of the texels. If all the texels are in the ground plane
then distance ones are viewed at an angle that is farther off the perpendicular, and so
are more foreshortened. The magnitude of the foreshortening effect is proportional to
cos , where is the slant, the angle between the Z-axis and n, the surface normal to
thetexel.
Researchers have developed various algorithms that try to exploit the variation in the
appearance of the projected texels as a basis for determining surface normals. However, the
accuracy and applicability of these algorithms is not anywhere as general as those based on
usingmultipleviews.
24.4.5 Shading
Shading variation inthe intensity oflight received from different portions ofasurface ina
scene is determined by the geometry of the scene and by the reflectance properties of the
surfaces. In computer graphics, the objective is to compute the image brightness I(x,y),
given the scene geometry and reflectance properties of the objects in the scene. Computer
visionaimstoinverttheprocess that is,torecoverthegeometryandreflectance propert