sresultswerepublished slightlyearlier.
Truthtablesasamethodoftestingvalidityorunsatisfiabilityinpropositionallogicwere
introducedindependentlyby Emil Post(1921)and Ludwig Wittgenstein(1922). Inthe1930s,
a great deal of progress was made on inference methods for first-order logic. In particular,
Go del (1930) showed that a complete procedure for inference in first-order logic could be
obtained via areduction topropositional logic, using Herbrand s theorem (Herbrand, 1930).
We take up this history again in Chapter 9; the important point here is that the development
of efficient propositional algorithms in the 1960s was motivated largely by the interest of
mathematicians inaneffectivetheorem proverforfirst-orderlogic. The Davis Putnam algo-
rithm(Davisand Putnam,1960)wasthefirsteffectivealgorithm forpropositional resolution
butwasinmostcasesmuch lessefficient thanthe DPLL backtracking algorithm introduced
twoyearslater(1962). Thefullresolution ruleandaproof ofitscompleteness appeared ina
seminal paper by J. A. Robinson (1965), which also showed how to do first-order reasoning
withoutresorttopropositional techniques.
Stephen Cook (1971) showed that deciding satisfiability ofa sentence in propositional
logic (the SAT problem) is NP-complete. Since deciding entailment is equivalent to decid-
ingunsatisfiability, itisco-NP-complete. Manysubsets ofpropositional logic areknownfor
which the satisfiability problem is polynomially solvable; Horn clauses are one such subset.
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 277
The linear-time forward-chaining algorithm for Horn clauses is due to Dowling and Gallier
(1984), whodescribe theiralgorithm asadataflow process similartothepropagation of sig-
nalsinacircuit.
Early theoretical investigations showed that DPLL has polynomial average-case com-
plexity for certain natural distributions of problems. This potentially exciting fact became
less exciting when Franco and Paull (1983) showed that the same problems could be solved
in constant ti