creasing height with increasing membership values. The values range between zero (definitely not tall) to one (definitely tall). Often to simplify computation one tends to use a linear function. The vertical line defines a crisp set, with all values of height beyond the marked value being labeled tall. The others all agree beyond a point, but have different membership values around the crisp boundary. Observe that for a conservative application, for example recruitment of pilots, the crisp boundary may be shifted to the right. In the examples given above, we have also marked the words good (basketball players) and (with) ease. While these are not linguistic terms for numerical values, they are nevertheless fuzzy categories in the sense that people would form fuzzy sets associated with them. One could think of numerical values which in principle indicate the proficiency in the game (like for example the Elo ratings in chess) or the amount of effort (the Sherpas have to make). Fuzzy sets can be thought of as sets that are defined around some prototypical or idea values, and allow partial membership to values near the prototypical ones. For example, one may have in mind an interval of heights that defines medium height for a person, but people with heights outside but close to these values would still qualify to belong to the set, though to a lesser extent. Sometimes the intention of using categories is not based on linguistic goals, but to define sets of values that are equivalent for some form of reasoning. One is not interested in defining a function that captures how close the value is to the ideal value, but rather whether it belongs to an interval or not. The interval then defines a crisp set of values, but the values are such that they may be treated equivalently. This may happen if one wants to model a process without having access to numerical data. For example, the ice on a lake may be considered to be safe for skating after a certain thickness. Look at the f