rannyof TF scores: ifthequeryis IBM ,howdowemakesurethat IBM shomepage,
ibm.com,isthefirstresult,evenifanotherpagementionstheterm IBM morefrequently?
Theideaisthatibm.comhasmanyin-links(linkstothepage),soitshouldberankedhigher:
each in-link is a vote for the quality of the linked-to page. But if we only counted in-links,
thenitwouldbepossible fora Webspammertocreateanetwork ofpages andhavethemall
point to a page of his choosing, increasing the score of that page. Therefore, the Page Rank
algorithm is designed to weight links from high-quality sites more heavily. What is a high-
quality site? Onethatislinked tobyotherhigh-quality sites. Thedefinition isrecursive, but
wewillseethattherecursion bottomsoutproperly. The Page Rankforapagepisdefinedas:
(cid:12)
1 d PR(in )
i
PR(p) d ,
N C(in )
i
i
where PR(p) is the Page Rank of page p, N is the total number of pages in the corpus, in
i
are the pages that link in to p, and C(in ) is the count of the total number of out-links on
i
page in . The constant d is a damping factor. It can be understood through the random
i
RANDOMSURFER surfer model: imagine a Web surfer who starts at some random page and begins exploring.
MODEL
With probability d (we ll assume d 0.85) the surfer clicks on one of the links on the page
(choosing uniformly among them), and with probability 1 d she gets bored with the page
and restarts on a random page anywhere on the Web. The Page Rank of page p is then the
probability that the random surfer will be at page p at any point in time. Page Rank can be
computed by an iterative procedure: start with all pages having PR(p) 1, and iterate the
algorithm, updating ranksuntiltheyconverge.
872 Chapter 22. Natural Language Processing
22.3.5 The HIT Salgorithm
The Hyperlink-Induced Topic Search algorithm, also known as Hubs and Authorities or
HITS, is another influential link-analysis algorithm (see Figure 22.1). HITS differs from
Page Rankinseveralways. First,itisaquery-dependent measure: itratespages withrespec