 search for a limited time and evaluate the merit of each resulting board position using some static function. Program 3 is an example of the use of an Al technique. For very small problems, it is less efficient than a variety of more direct methods. However, it can be used in situations where those methods would fail. 1.3.2 Question Answering In this section we look at a series of programs that read in English text and then answer questions, also stated in English, about that text. This task differs from the last one in that it is more difficult now to state formally and precisely what our problem is and what constitutes correct solutions to it. For example, suppose that the input text were just the single sentence Russia massed troops on the Czech border. Then either of the following question-answering dialogues might occur (and in fact did occur with the POLITICS program [Carbonell, 19801): EE 12 Artificial Intelligence Dialogue 1 (J. Whe did Russia do this? At Because Russia thought that it could take political control of Czechoslovakia by sending troops. Q: What should the United States do? A: The United States should intervene militarily. poe, | Dialogue 2 | Q: Why did Russia do this? A: Because Russia wanted to increase its political influence over Czechoslovakia. Q: What should the United States do? A: The Unitcd States should denounce the Russian action in the United Nations. In the POLITICS program, answers were constructed by considering hoth the input text and a separate model of the beliefs and actions of various political entities, including Russia, When the model is changed, as it was between these two dialogues, the system's answers also change. In this example. the first dialogue was produced when POLITICS was given a model that was intended to correspond to the beliefs of a typical American cunservative (circa 1977). The second dialogue occurred when POLITICS was given a model that was intended to correspond to the beliefs of a typical American lib