ogh and Robert Schumann; those who committed suicide, such as Ernest Hemingway and Virginia Woolf; or who were paranoid, such as Sir Isaac Newton. In the largest study ever conducted of the connection between creativity and madness, Arnold Ludwig analysed the biographies of about one thousand eminent men and women (Ludwig, 1995). He found that mental illness occurred more frequently in this group than it did in the general population. Specifically, 60 percent of the composers had psychological problems, as did 73 percent of the visual artists, 74 percent of the playwrights, 77 percent of the novelists and short-story writers, and 87 percent of the poets. But only about 20 percent of scientists, politicians, architects, and business people had even mild mental illness. (Begley, 2005). It is the pathways and flexible connectivity in the human brain that determines what thought patterns can come together to mate and produce novel ideas. Can we implement systems that are creative? The above discussion indicates that creativity involves the ability to make connections between seemingly unrelated ideas and selecting the useful combinations. Our exploration of GAs has just begun. The chromosomes we talk about are all of strings of the same length and a fixed schema. Though there has been some research with variable length strings and working with tree structures (see (Koza, 1992)), we are still far away from having integrated representations for all the problems our agents solve. As a result, each system that we develop for a specific task has its own representation. We will see in Chapter 15 that repositories (populations) of solutions can also be accumulated and used in the form of experience by memory-based agents. Even here, the schema of the solution is fixed and each system is designed for a specific task. Building integrated knowledge representation systems that an agent can use for different tasks is definitely a challenge for artificial intelligence research. Unti