hich is passed on to other nodes or is used to produce some output response. In the simplest case, no output is produced if the total input is less than T. In more complex models, the output will depend on a nonlinear activation function. - Neural networks were originally inspired as being models of the human nervous system. They are greatly simplified models to be sure (neurons are known to be fairly complex processors). Even so, they have been shown to exhibit many "intelligent" abilities, such as learning, generalization, and abstraction. A single node is illustrated in Figure 15.7. The inputs to the node are the values t, x. ..,X, which typically take on values of - I. 0. I. or real values within the range (-1.1). The weights w1, w, .......,,. correspond to the synaptic strengths of a neuron. They serve to increase or decrease the effects of the corresponding x, input values. The sum of the prodiicts x w,, I = I. 2, . . . . n, serve as the total combined input to the node. If this sum is large enough to exceed the Figure 15.7 Nlodci of j ig Ie neuron 344 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 threshold amount T, the node fires, and produces an output y, an activation function value placed on the node's output links. This output may then be the input to other nodes or the final output response from the network. Figure 15.8 illustrates three layers of a number of interconnected nodes. The first layer serves as the input layer, receiving inputs from some set of stimuli. The second layer (called the hidden layer) receives inputs from the first layer and produces a pattern of Inputs to the third layer, the output layer. The pattern of outputs from the final layer are the network's responses to the input stimuli patterns. Input links to layer = 1.2.3) have weights w for = 1,2..... . n. General multilayer networks having n nodes (number of rows) in each of m layers (number of columns of nodes) will have weights represented as an n x in matrix W. Using this representatio