lief statefor Whitecanbeshowninasingle
boardbymarkingeachpossible position ofthe Blackking.
The general AND-OR search algorithm can be applied to the belief-state space to find
guaranteed checkmates, just as in Section 4.4. The incremental belief-state algorithm men-
tioned inthatsection oftenfindsmidgamecheckmates uptodepth9 probably wellbeyond
theabilitiesofhumanplayers.
In addition to guaranteed checkmates, Kriegspiel admits an entirely new concept that
PROBABILISTIC makes no sense in fully observable games: probabilistic checkmate. Such checkmates are
CHECKMATE
stillrequiredtoworkineveryboardstateinthebeliefstate;theyareprobabilisticwithrespect
torandomization ofthewinning player s moves. Togetthebasic idea, consider theproblem
of finding a lone black king using just the white king. Simply by moving randomly, the
white king will eventually bump into the black king even if the latter tries to avoid this fate,
since Blackcannot keep guessing therightevasivemovesindefinitely. Intheterminology of
probability theory, detection occurs with probability 1. The KBNK endgame king, bishop
3 Sometimes,thebeliefstatewillbecometoolargetorepresentjustasalistofboardstates,butwewillignore
thisissuefornow;Chapters7and8suggestmethodsforcompactlyrepresentingverylargebeliefstates.
182 Chapter 5. Adversarial Search
4
3
2
1
a b c d
Kc3 ? OK Illegal Rc3 ? OK Check Figure 5.13 Part of a guaranteedcheckmatein the KRK endgame, shown on a reduced
board. In the initial belief state, Black s king is in one of three possible locations. By a
combination of probing moves, the strategy narrows this down to one. Completion of the
checkmateisleftasanexercise.
andknight against king is woninthis sense; Whitepresents Blackwithaninfiniterandom
sequence of choices, for one of which Black will guess incorrectly and reveal his position,
leadingtocheckmate. The KBB Kendgame,ontheotherhand,iswonwithprobability1 (cid:2).
White can force a win only by leaving one of his bishops unprotected for one move. If
