ses are very sensitive to the annealing schedule. If cooling occurs too rapidly, stable regions of high energy will form. In other words, a local but not global minimum is reached. If. however, a slower schedule is used, a uniform crystalline structure, which corresponds to a global minimum, is more likely to develop. But, if the schedule is too slow, time is wasted. At high temperatures, where essentially random motion is allowed, nothing useful happens. At low temperatures a lot of time may be wasted after the final structure has already been formed. The optimal annealing schedule for each particular annealing problem must usually be discovered empirically. 56 Artificial Intelligence A e S TENNENT ETER ES. SEITE These properties of physical annealing can be used to define an analogous process of simulated annealing, which can be used (although not always effectively) whenever simple hill climbing can be used. In this analogous process, AF is generalized so that it represents not specifically the change in energy but more generally, the change in the value of the objective function, whatever it is. The analogy for XT is slightly less straightforward. In the physical process, temperature is a well-defined notion, measured in standard units. The variable k describes the correspondence between the units of temperature and the units of energy. Since, in the analogous process, the units for both E and T are artificial, it makes sense to incorporate k into 7, selecting values for T that produce desirable behavior on the part of the algorithm. Thus we use the revised probability formula pi = eset But we still need to choose a schedule of values for T (which we still call temperature), We discuss this briefly below after we present the simulated annealing algorithm. The algorithm for simulated annealing is only slightly different from the simple hill-climbing procedure. The three differences are: The annealing schedule must be maintained. * Moves to worse states may be acc