tepinproblem solving.
We will consider a goal to be a set of world states exactly those states in which the
goal is satisfied. The agent s task is to find out how to act, now and in the future, so that it
reaches a goal state. Before it can do this, it needs to decide (or we need to decide on its
behalf) what sorts of actions and states it should consider. If it were to consider actions at
thelevelof movetheleftfootforwardaninch or turnthesteering wheelonedegreeleft, the agent would probably never find its way out of the parking lot, let alone to Bucharest,
because at that level of detail there is too much uncertainty in the world and there would be
PROBLEM too many steps in a solution. Problem formulation is the process of deciding what actions
FORMULATION
andstatestoconsider, givenagoal. Wediscuss thisprocess inmoredetaillater. Fornow,let
usassume thattheagent willconsider actions atthe levelof driving from onemajortownto
another. Eachstatetherefore corresponds tobeinginaparticulartown.
Our agent has now adopted the goal of driving to Bucharest and is considering where
togofrom Arad. Threeroads lead outof Arad, onetoward Sibiu, oneto Timisoara, and one
to Zerind. Noneoftheseachievesthegoal,sounlesstheagentisfamiliarwiththegeography
of Romania, itwillnotknow whichroadtofollow.1 Inotherwords, theagent willnotknow
which of its possible actions is best, because it does not yet know enough about the state
that results from taking each action. If the agent has no additional information i.e., if the
environment is unknowninthesense defined in Section 2.3 then itishas nochoice but to
tryoneoftheactionsatrandom. Thissadsituationisdiscussed in Chapter4.
But suppose the agent has a map of Romania. The point of a map is to provide the
agentwithinformationaboutthestatesitmightgetitselfintoandtheactionsitcantake. The
agent can use this information to consider subsequent stages of a hypothetical journey via
eachofthethreetowns,tryingtofindajourneythateventuallygetsto Bucharest. 