a TV camera. What is even more remarkable is the ease with which we humans sense and perceive a variety of visual images. It is so effortless, we are seldom consciou a of the act. In this chapter, we examine the processes and the problems involved in building computer vision systems. We look at some of the approaches taken thus far and at some of the more successful vision systems constructed to date. 14.1 INTRODUCTION Because of its wide ranging potential, computer vision has become one of the most intensely studied areas of Al and engineering during the past few decades. Some typical areas of application include the following. 285 Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 286 MANUFACTURING Parts inspection for quality control Assembly, sorting, dispensing, locating, and packaging of parts MEDICAL Screening x-ray, tomographic, ultrasound, and other medical images DEFENSE Photo reconnaisance, analysis, and scene interpretation Target detection, identification, and tracking Microbe detection and identification Weapons guidance Remote and local site monitoring BUSINESS Visual document readers Design tools for engineers and architects Inspection of labels for identification Inspection of products for contents and packaging ROBOTICS Guidance of welders and spray paint nozzles Sorting, picking, and bin packing of items Autonomous guidance of land, air and sea vehicles SPACE EXPLORATION Discovery and interpretation of astronomical images Terrestial image mapping and interpretation for plant disease, mineral deposits, insect infestations, and soil erosion - Vision in an organic system is the process of sensing a pattern of light energy, and developing an interpretation of those patterns. The sensing part of the process consists of selectively gathering light from some area of the environment, focusing and projecting it onto a light sensitive surface, and converting the light into electrochemical patterns of impulses. The perception part of the process involves the transformation