dia. org wiki Welterweight 5 Metric (mathematics). http: en. wikipedia. org wiki Metric 28mathematics 29 8 Note that conditions 1 and 2 together produce positive definiteness. 7 remember a bright four year old asking But why do they call it a fan? Why not something e se? . She was referring to the ceiling fan, a common fixture in Chennai homes. 8 In practice though, an ENT specialist would also be to tell you that you have a problem with your eyes or ears. 9 We use the same symbol sim for both local and global similarity. The arguments to the function determine what we are talking about. In an implementation of CBR in the manufacturing domain (Khemani et al., 2002), the shop floor personnel gave high weights to all attributes, saying that each was very important. While that may be true from the manufacturing perspective, it need not be the case for measuring similarity between two cases. 11 Thanks to Sutanu Chakraborti for discussing this point. 12 In the interest of brevity. 13 You can never step into the same river, for new waters are always flowing on to you. -Heraclitus of Ephesus (535-475 bc). 14 See for example, http: archive.ics. uci.edu mi datasets Spambase Natural Language Processing Sutanu Chakraborti Chapter 16 ir Chapters 13 and 14, we have emphasized the importance of knowledge representation in A systems. Once a model of the world is captured in formal representations like First Order Logic, we can devise powerful reasoning mechanisms. Humans, however, seem to be seamlessly effective in communicating with each other in natural languages like English. Natural Language Processing (NLP), a subfield of Al, attempts to build computational systems that can converse with us in natural language. NLP has two subdisciplines: Natural Language Understanding (NLU) aims at building systems that can make sense of free-form text. Natural Language Generation (NLG) aims at building systems that can express their knowledge or explain their behaviour in natural language. 