control have been given great importance; one s pieces must become as mobile as possible and either occupy the centre or control it. Pawn formations are also subject to evaluation; chained pawns that support each other are better than isolated pawns; pawns in the same column or opposing pawns head to head are not good; and as most players know, pawns heading for promotion have added value. The king needs protection in the opening and middle games, and structures like those obtained by castling are valued high; while in the end game, the king may be an offensive piece adding to the fighting strength. Pins, forks and discovered attacks also need to be considered while computing positional value. The evaluation function of the program Deep Blue has about 8000 components (Campbell et al., 2002). Ww P ) FIGURE 8.12 The fork is a pattern in which a Knight attacks two pieces simultaneously. The opponent can only move one piece away. In the example, the Red Knight attacks the White Rook as well the White Queen. The value determined by a component of the evaluation function could have also been determined by searching further. For example, if one ascribes a value to the existence of a fork pattern on a chessboard (see Figure 8.12), it says that a fork tilts the value in favour of the player by a certain amount. If this was not part of the evaluation function, the advantage would have become evident after a few plies search. In the example in the figure, the Red Knight attacks the White Queen and the White Rook simultaneously. White can move only one of the pieces away, and in the next move the Red Knight could capture the other piece, gaining material advantage, even if the knight is captured in turn. This estimate of material gain could be encoded as the value of the pattern. The key thing is that this value is available from the given board position directly, without having to look ahead. This also illustrates how knowledge can be used to trade off search. One obvious way 