lan to draw money from the local bank ATM before proceeding for an outing, but the action may fail if the ATM has run out of cash and the agent may have to modify its plan or devise a new one. A goal, as specified in problems expressed in PDDL, is likely to be one of many goals the agent may have, perhaps at different times. There may be other goals that arise due to the need to execute the actions of the plan in a domain, sensing the world, and maintaining the health of the agent. For example, in the foreseeable future, one may be able to ask a robotic agent to bring a cup of tea along with the morning newspaper. A command like this to an agent can be seen as setting goals for it to find plans for and execute them autonomously. The high level plan may comprise the kind of actions shown in Figure 10.19. However, the actual actions that can be effected in the real world may be much more fine grained. In fact, we can already see that there is going to be an hierarchy in which actions are going to be organized. An action at a higher level may correspond to a plan at a lower level, with its own goal. At a higher level, the action, for example, may be to fetch the newspaper. At a lower level it might mean determining (sensing or asking) the location of the newspaper, and generating a path plan to go where it is. Each of the actions at this level, for example go to the front door , may serve as a goal for a lower level that may involve locomotion and navigation. These may involve starting certain motors in its body, and other control functions. We can see that plans and actions, like programs and instructions in programming languages, will have hierarchies of representation. The lowest level actions, like the machine code, is the one made of domain level actions. Apart from the hierarchical levels discussed above, a robotic agent may have to keep track of actions designed to maintain its balance and perhaps poise, satisfy operating constraints (for example, while moving f