eceiving the goal Go(xLoc, yLoc, depth) in its Path timeline, the Navigator may in turn decide that it needs to dispatch goals Descend(100) at tick 10, taking from 50 to 55 ticks and then achieve Waypoint(xLoc, yLoc) into the Command time line of Executive. In order to maintain consistency, T-REX needs to ensure that at the end of every tick, the entire set of observations received is consistent with the plan. At every tick, the following algorithm is followed. 1. First, all timelines are synchronized. This may involve different amounts of computation for different timelines. For example, the Path timeline owned by the Navigator is not likely change very often, being over a longer duration. The Position timeline, owned by the Executive, is likely to change at every tick if the AUV is moving. A principle used in the system is that observations dominate expectations. For example, if the Navigator expected the current depth to be a value dy, but the Executive who owns the timeline determines it to be de then the Navigator s plans will need to adjust to the observed depth. . After that, all goals are dispatched. These goals should be given to the concerned teleo-reactor so that it can achieve them in the time given. If tis the current tick, is the latency of the teleo-reactor, and pits planning horizon then the dispatch window for the goal is 7 A, T A 7 . As soon as the start time of the goal intersects with this window, it should be dispatched. In the current implementation of TREX, the Executive is assumed to have zero latency, and therefore planning horizon, so the commands are dispatched when they need to be executed. The remaining time is allocated to the teleo-reactors for deliberation. Like the RA, T-REX too uses a constraint based, temporal planning approach. The variables of the constraint network include state and actions, and the constraints between them are represented as in EUROPA (described below). Ls) 10.7.3 CAIP EUROPA Complex systems like spacecraft, ro