rase.. VP stands for verb phrase. N stands for noun. V is an abbreviation for verb, and ART stands for article. The grammar (i defined above generates only a small fraction of English, but it illustrates the general concepts of generative grammars. With this G. sentences such as the following can he generated. The boy ate a popsicle. The frog kissed a boy. A boy ate the frog. To generate a sentence, the rules from P are applied sequentially starting with S and proceeding until all nonterminal symbols are eliminated. As an example, the first sentence given above can be generated using the following sequence of rewrite rules: S - NP VP ART N VP the N VP -. the boy VP the boy V NP -. the boy ate NP -. the boy ate ART N - the boy ate a N -* the boy ate a popsicle It should be clear that a grammar does not guarantee the generation of meaningful sentences, only that they are structurally correct. For example, a gramatically correct, but meaningless sentence like "The popsicle flew a frog" can be generated with this grammar. We learn a language by learning its structure and not by memorizing all of the sentences we have ever heard, and we are able to use, the language in a variety of ways because of this familiarity. Therefore, a useful model of language is one which characterizes the permissible structures through the generating grammars. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to formally characterize natural languages with a simple grammar. In other words, it has not been possible to classify natural languages in a mathematical sense as we did in the example above. More constrained Sec. 12.3 Grammars and Languages 233 languages (formal progrmmiflg languages) have been classified and studied through the use of similar grammars. including the Chomsky classes of languages (1965). The Chomsky Hierarchy of Generative Grammars Noarn Chomskv defined a hierarchy of grammars he called types 0. I. 2. and 3. Type 0 grammar is the most general. It is obtained by making the simple r