can be combined with conflict-directed back-
jumping; Kondrak and van Beek (1997) present a hybrid algorithm that provably subsumes
DYNAMIC eithermethodtaken separately. Themethodof dynamicbacktracking(Ginsberg, 1993) re-
BACKTRACKING
tains successful partial assignments from later subsets of variables when backtracking over
anearlierchoicethatdoesnotinvalidate thelatersuccess.
Empirical studies of several randomized backtracking methods were done by Gomes
etal.(2000)and Gomesand Selman(2001). Van Beek(2006)surveysbacktracking.
Local search in constraint satisfaction problems was popularized by the work of Kirk-
patricketal.(1983)onsimulatedannealing(see Chapter4),whichiswidelyusedforschedul-
ingproblems. Themin-conflictsheuristicwasfirstproposed by Gu(1989)andwasdeveloped
independently by Mintonetal.(1992). Sosicand Gu(1994)showedhowitcouldbeapplied
to solve the 3,000,000 queens problem in less than a minute. The astounding success of
local search using min-conflicts on the n-queens problem led to a reappraisal of the nature
and prevalence of easy and hard problems. Peter Cheeseman et al. (1991) explored the
difficulty of randomly generated CS Ps and discovered that almost all such problems either
are trivially easy or have no solutions. Only if the parameters of the problem generator are
setin acertain narrow range, within which roughly half oftheproblems aresolvable, dowe
find hard problem instances. We discuss this phenomenon further in Chapter 7. Konolige
(1994)showedthatlocalsearchisinferiortobacktracking searchonproblemswithacertain
degree of local structure; this led to work that combined local search and inference, such as
thatby Pinkasand Dechter(1995). Hoosand Tsang(2006)surveylocalsearchtechniques.
Workrelatingthestructureandcomplexityof CS Psoriginateswith Freuder(1985),who
showedthat search onarcconsistent treesworks without any backtracking. Asimilarresult,
with extensions to acyclic hypergraphs, was developed in the database community (Beeri
et al., 