ntendstoproduceasparsemodel. (a)With L regu-
1 1
larization(box),the minimalachievableloss(concentriccontours)oftenoccurson anaxis,
meaninga weightof zero. (b)With L regularization(circle), the minimalloss islikely to
2
occuranywhereonthecircle,givingnopreferencetozeroweights.
Figure18.14givesanintuitiveexplanationofwhy L regularizationleadstoweightsof
1
zero, while L regularization does not. Note that minimizing Loss(w) Complexity(w)
2
is equivalent to minimizing Loss(w) subject to the constraint that Complexity(w) c, for
someconstant cthatisrelated to . Now,in Figure 18.14(a) thediamond-shaped box repre-
sents theset of points win two-dimensional weight space that have L complexity less than
1
c; our solution will have to be somewhere inside this box. The concentric ovals represent
contours ofthelossfunction, withtheminimumlossatthecenter. Wewanttofindthepoint
intheboxthatisclosest totheminimum;youcanseefromthediagram that,foranarbitrary
positionoftheminimumanditscontours, itwillbecommonforthecorneroftheboxtofind
itswayclosesttotheminimum,justbecausethecornersarepointy. Andofcoursethecorners
are the points that have a value of zero in some dimension. In Figure 18.14(b), we ve done
the same for the L complexity measure, which represents a circle rather than a diamond.
2
Here you can see that, in general, there is no reason for the intersection to appear on one of
theaxes; thus L regularization does nottend toproduce zeroweights. Theresult isthat the
2
numberofexamplesrequiredtofindagoodhislinearinthenumberofirrelevantfeaturesfor
L regularization, but only logarithmic with L regularization. Empirical evidence onmany
2 1
problemssupports thisanalysis.
Anotherwaytolookatitisthat L regularization takesthedimensionalaxesseriously,
1
while L treats them as arbitrary. The L function is spherical, which makes it rotationally
2 2
invariant: Imagine a set of points in a plane, measured by their x and y coordinates. Now
imagine rotating the axes by 45o. You d get a different 