tuations where specialized knowledge would solve the problem quickly. This is the case, for example, when a Chess player uses triangulation to achieve Zugzwang, or uses a special procedure to mate the opponent s king with two bishops, or a Go master employs a Yose in the end game. While such specialized procedures work very well when they are applicable, and recognizing their applicability is a task in itself, they work only in those situations. Knowledge based methods thus may suffer from a problem of incompleteness, in the sense that they may not have a solution in all situations. One of the key open problems in artificial intelligence is to devise integrated representations that can be used by both kinds of methods, and implement hybrid multipronged problem solvers that may choose an appropriate procedure in different situations. 8.6 Discussion Games have always fascinated us. They have been means of recreation and have been considered a hallmark of intelligence. They provide us a means to pit our wits against others and have been the training ground for learning strategy and analysis. Because they are by nature symbolic or digital board games can be implemented on computers without any loss by abstraction. Furthermore, since rules and outcomes are well defined, the result of combat can be evaluated precisely. 4 4n 3 Y 3 4n 7 3 mn ee coins: Unsafe - node (Beoins:s coins: Safe node ) 3 Move: Pick 3 coins . ake FIGURE 8.44 States with 1 4n coins are unsafe in the Pic123 game. These are shown in circles in the above figure. A player in an unsafe state can be forced to move to the lower unsafe state, and eventually to the losing state, where there is only one coin on the board. Games like Chess, Checkers and Go are the simplest conceptually. But their complexity is still high enough to bar complete analysis and bring in the role of judgment in the form of evaluation. A complete analysis of Checkers was done in 2007 though. Perfect play by both sides leads to a draw. 