ble computations. For example, a taxi-driving agent
that sees an accident ahead must decide in a split second either to brake or to take evasive
action. It should also spend that split second thinking about the most important questions,
such as whether the lanes to the left and right are clear and whether there is a large truck
close behind, rather than worrying about wear and tear on the tires or where to pick up the
next passenger. These issues are usually studied under the heading of real-time AI. As AI
REAL-TIMEAI
1048 Chapter 27. AI:The Presentand Future
Percepts
Compilation
Knowledge-based
deliberation
Reflex system Actions
Figure 27.2 Compilation serves to convertdeliberative decision making into more effi-
cient,reflexivemechanisms.
systems move into more complex domains, all problems will become real-time, because the
agentwillneverhavelongenough tosolvethedecision problem exactly.
Clearly, thereisapressing needfor general methodsofcontrolling deliberation, rather
than specific recipes forwhattothink about ineach situation. The firstuseful idea isto em-
ANYTIME ploy anytimealgorithms (Deanand Boddy, 1988; Horvitz, 1987). Ananytimealgorithm is
ALGORITHM
an algorithm whose output quality improves gradually over time, so that it has a reasonable
decision readywheneveritisinterrupted. Suchalgorithms arecontrolled bya metalevel de-
cisionprocedurethatassesseswhetherfurthercomputationisworthwhile. (See Section3.5.4
for a brief description of metalevel decision making.) Example of an anytime algorithms
includeiterativedeepening ingame-treesearchand MCM Cin Bayesiannetworks.
DECISION-
Thesecondtechniqueforcontrollingdeliberationisdecision-theoreticmetareasoning
THEORETIC
METAREASONING
(Russell and Wefald, 1989, 1991; Horvitz, 1989; Horvitz and Breese, 1996). This method
applies the theory of information value (Chapter 16) to the selection of individual computa-
tions. Thevalue ofacomputation depends onboth its cost (interms ofdelaying action) and
itsbenefits(interm