 relevant to one s goals. In A Study in Scarlet (by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) Holmes says that he would now do his best to forget this fact (that the Earth goes round the Sun) as it would not make a pennyworth of difference to me or my work. ... I consider that a man s brain originally is like a little empty attic, and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose.... A fool takes in all the lumber of every sort that he comes across, so that the knowledge which might be useful to him gets crowded out, or at best is jumbled up with a lot of other things so that he has a difficulty in laying his hands upon it. Now the skilful workman is very careful indeed as to what he takes into his brain-attic. 5 http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Critique of Pure Reason See http: penta.ufrgs.br edu telelab 2 war-of-t.htm By concrete we do not mean physical, just something that is an element of the domain of discourse. on aN NO 8 See http: www.tolweb.org tree 9 One assumes that fillers of slots are pointers to the constituent frames. This makes each frame a compact structure. If one were to use the frames themselves as fillers, the structures would become quite unwieldy, considering that the aggregation hierarchy could be quite deep. 10 In our times, an SMS or an email would be the medium. 11 On this network, the answer would be Aeden is the cousin of Arushi s mother . 12 In his 1977 paper, Charniak said in the concluding section ! would estimate that the version which will handle all of the examples herein is six months off, but previous experience tells me that such estimates are likely to be too ambitious by a factor of two or three. In fact, the Al community is still on the job! 13 Teenagers can respond to a bewildering variety of questions with the answer Simply . 14 A jar of pickles from Chennai is cherished gift. 15 It could be argued that lower life forms like ants and birds display only (genetically) scripted behaviour. Humans however, have a more cognitive approach in whi