on; that is hypothesising goals' of what we are seeing and looking for confirmation of these goals in the incoming data. Optical illusions are a stark example of the fact that we do backward reasoning in visual processing. For example, in the well known optical illusion in which we can see a young woman or an old woman depicted in Figure 6.23. This image is from an anonymous German postcard from 1888 and depicts the image in its earliest known form. Figure 6.23 Optical illusions illustrate the fact that what we see is what we believe we are seeing. This famous optical image in which you can switch between seeing a young woman or an old woman, is one of the oldest known. The interesting thing is that we seem to process our visual imagery in both forms of reasoning, forward and backward. This was revealed by an experiment in which a patient had his second pathway to the right visual cortex damaged. The patient was asked to point his finger to a point he said he could not see, but when asked to try, he could do it ninety nine percent of the time. So our ancient pathway leads to an area of the brain where processing happens in the forward direction. This kind of processing does happen in simpler life forms more often. For example, the visual system of a frog is tuned to recognize flying insects. It can only see an insect when it moves, and is blind to a stationary one. However, recent research shows that with the development of our neocortex, or the cerebral cortex, and our ability to handle a large number of concepts, the number of objects and situations we might be seeing is so large that we seem to be doing perception more in a goal directed fashion. We seem to hypothesise what we are seeing and only use the incoming visual information to validate our hypothesis. The following interesting experiment was discussed in a BBC program on vision Almost a third of our entire brain is devoted to vision, but there s a limit to how much our eyes observe. In a simple experiment