ich the cluster(.) and p(.) values are modified in sequence (lines 2-4). K-Means (Set of Objects X x,, 42, .., X, , clusters k) 1 Initialize u(C,) through p(C,) randomly in the Euclidean space of X 2 while O(cluster(.),u(.)) has not yet converged do Vi, 1S isgn, cluster (x,) argmin d(x;, WIC;)) w oN do Vj, 1S jk, H(C;) mean xlcluster (x) C, S return cluster(.) FIGURE 18.14 K-Means Algorithm iteratively assigns objects to clusters, and re-computes the cluster centroids till the objective function converges. K-Means is one of the classical examples of the ExpectationMaximization technique briefly described in Section 18.3.1. Here, the E step corresponds to assigning data points to clusters (Line 3 in Figure 18.14), whereas the M step (in Line 4) corresponds to obtaining a new model for the clusters, i.e., a new set of p(.) values. As we have seen, each of these steps are guaranteed to improve (minimize) the objective function O(cluster(.),u(.)) and the algorithm is set to converge when the improvements cease or are no longer significant. We look an example where the algorithm is used. Example: Gene Clustering Genes store codes for making proteins, which carry out intended functions inside a cell. The protein synthesis from the gene takes place in two steps: (i) transcription step, in which messenger RNA (m-RNA) is formed by reading the gene of the DNA, and (ii) translation step that synthesizes the protein using amino acids mentioned in the gene sequence. Once a gene is transcribed into m-RNA, we say that the gene is expressed in the cell. The genes are expressed under specific physiological condition, in which particular proteins are required to carry out the specific task. The gene expression is measured using microarray technology. The dataset used in this illustration is constructed from two microarray experiments involving 10 genes, as shown in Table 18.5. Each gene has two features, x ) and x2), that correspond to expression levels of a gene under two different 