ge rare steak, paid his bill, and left. and answer yes to the question 3 We discuss such a script in detail in Chapter 10. 94 Artificial Intelligence c E SRRIL Ve ASAT I OREN RA CEA TE EE RARLS Did John eat dinner last night? Notice that nowhere in the story was John s eating anything mentioned explicitly. But the fact that when one goes to a restaurant one eats will be contained in the restaurant script. If we know in advance to use the restaurant script, then we can answer the question easily. But in order to be able to reason about a variety of things, a system must have many scripts for everything from going to work to sailing around the world. How will it select the appropriate one each time? For example, nowhere in our story was the word restaurant mentioned. In fact, in order to have access to the right structure for describing a particular situation, it is necessary to solve all of the following problems.* How to perform an initial selection of the most appropriate structure. * How to fill in appropriate details from the current situation. How to find a better structure if the one chosen initially turns out not to be appropriate. * What to do if none of the available structures is appropriate. * When to create and remember a new structure. There is no good, general purpose method for solving all these problems. Some knowledge-representation techniques solve some of them. In this section we survey some solutions to two of these problems: how to select an initial structure to consider and how to find a better structure if that one turns out not to be a good match. Selecting an Initial Structure Selecting candidate knowledge structures to match a particular problem-solving situation is a hard problem; there are several ways in which it can be done. Three important approaches are the following: Index the structures directly by the significant English words that can be used to describe them. For example, let each verb have associated with it a structure that desc