ease or decrease with age? 14. Explore the books Godel Escher Bach (Hofstadter, 1979) and The Mind s (Hofstadter and Dennett, 1981). Read the chapter on Ant Fugue , and study how a colony of ants can be treated as a more complex organism. 1 2 If in the candidate solution, each city was connected to its two nearest neighbours, then the solution will clearly be optimal, but not all optimal solutions satisfy this property. The name annealing comes from physical processes in which materials are cooled at a controlled rate with the aim of stabilising in minimum energy states. Since this can be seen as a problem of minimization, the term energy has been carried to the evaluation function value in the computational version of this physical process. 3 http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Cope s rule 4 hittp- en.wikipedia.org wiki DNA 5 The strategy adopted by human beings involves representation and modelling of their environment, including themselves, so that it is possible for human beings to contemplate and reflect upon their own strategy, fine tune it to the world, and even create machines and exploit other life forms to their advantage. Interestingly, human beings can contemplate human beings contemplating human beings contemplating vee contemplating their strategy, ending up in all kinds of philosophical conundrums about reality and what is really happening out there. 8 One supposes that there is no fundamental reason that pairs are used, except that this process is the one that has persisted. In principle, the offspring could be a result of a recombination of genes from more than two parents, but perhaps nature did not find a mechanism to do so. Observe, that handling such pairs is also commonplace in computer science. We represent numbers in binary form, we use two valued logics of true and false sentences, and most sorting algorithms compare two elements at a time. 7 The cheetah is an example of such an event happening. The animal was so well suited to its predator life for