he capacities of the two tanks. Qualitative reasoning is thus a powerful tool to reason about a system without resorting to numerical information. This is the kind of common sense reasoning that people do before without going into quantitative analysis. 17.3 Model Based Diagnosis The ability to construct a model of a system and generate predictions based on the model can be considered to be deep knowledge of the system. This ability can be exploited in other ways as well. In this section, we look at how this can lead to an approach to diagnosis of (malfunctioning) systems. The earliest diagnosis systems were based on experiential knowledge. Such knowledge could be in the form of rules, as described in Chapter 6. The rules embody a distilled and modular form of knowledge that has to be elicited from a domain expert. It is assumed that the domain expert would be able to delve into her vast experience and mine the rules from her memory. This however was a somewhat unexpected bottleneck (see for example (Feigenbaum, 1977), (Forsythe and Buchanan, 1989)) in building systems that would exploit expert knowledge. It turns out that the experts were either unable or unwilling to articulate such knowledge that would be the core of a rule based expert system. To a certain extent, this led to the evolution of Case Based Reasoning approaches, described in Chapter 15, in which the strategy is to capture entire problem solving experiences, and retrieve the best matching one when a new problem occurs. In diagnosis, the problem is the description of abnormal behaviour of a device, or a living creature, and the solution is a diagnosis and a therapy. Numerous helpdesk applications were built in which a relatively inexpert call centre employee would respond to a user, in consultation with a CBR system (see (Watson, 1997; 2002) for case studies). The problem with experience based systems is that they apply only to those problems for which knowledge has been gleaned from experience. For d