 objects are viewed such that vertices are not formed because of a particular viewpoint. For example, the two collinear line segments of a T vertex are part of the same edge, and not two different edges appearing collinear because of the viewpoint. The twenty valid combinations are also shown in the figure. Observe that three label combinations of the Y joint are rotations of each other. This is because the edge labelled could have been in any orientation. joint W joint or Fork or Arrow T joint L joint FIGURE 9.13 The four types of vertices and their list notation. The allowable combinations of labels are given below in boxes. The edges can be identified unambiguously irrespective of their orientation except for the Y vertex. The allowable labels for edges meeting at vertices are determined by the physical properties of the sort of objects we are dealing with. These are the possible label combinations when the vertices are seen in isolation. When vertices correspond to physical objects, each edge of a vertex connects it to another vertex. Since the edge is the same for both vertices, it should be classified with the same label, and this imposes further constraints on the allowed labelling. This inter-vertex constraint is illustrated in Figure 9.14. Vertices V; and V2 share an edge, as do V2 and V3. The matching diagrams for these three vertices are also shown. The reader must remember that the labels (x, y, z) are with respect to the orientations shown in Figure 9.13. Only two labels of V2 have support from V, and two from V3, and only one ( , , ) has support from both. Enforcing arc consistency will keep only this label for V2 and the matching labels for V; and V3. A CSP for the edge labelling problem can be posed as follows. Each vertex in the line diagram is a variable. The domains of the vertices are the (compound) labels as shown in Figure 9.13. Each edge in the diagram imposes a binary constraint on the two vertices it connects. The constraint is that the edge