d verbal testimony (shabda, which could be of God from the vedas, or of a trustworthy hum: inference is concerned with logical necessity. s reflected in the form of the argument now known as the five step syllogism. Suppose that we se g from a mountain, and we want to infer that the mountain is on fire. The Nyayasdtra describes the 2000) of a good argument as a five step process. rst, a statement of the thesis (Pratijfia): there is fire on the mountain 2cond, a statement of reason (Hetu): because there is smoke on the mountain hird, an example of the underlying rule (Udaharana): where there is smoke there is fire, like the rth yurth, a statement that (Upanaya): this case is like that nally the assertion of the thesis proven (Nigamana): therefore the mountain is on fire erived piece of knowledge is known as anum na (after cognition). s in contrast to the three step syllogism exemplified by the Socratic argument. It has also been obs 853; 1859) that the Indian philosophers used the five step reasoning only when the task was to out their conclusions. When the task was to infer something for oneself the simpler three step pro follows. 1ere is smoke on the mountain. herever there is smoke there is fire. 1erefore, there is fire on the mountain. s precisely the form of reasoning, the Aristotelian syllogism, which is fundamental to western logic. was basicallya4var' fee theory of knowledge (Pramana S stra). Indian philosophers were also ci validity or truth of each statement, and asked how it could be true. Some statements were ascrit juse they were directly perceptible to be true , such as there is smoke on the mountain. vyapti must admit at least one instance. This is different from modern western logic which is no d with knowledge about some real situation, but only with the structure of sound argument. Thus statement like all three legged fishes have one eye in logic as true withewhanymreblems because ' legged fishes. When logic and reasoning is part of a complete knowl