titive bidding in auctions: whoever wins the auction is very likely to have overes-
timated the value of the object in question. Capen et al. quote a petroleum engineer on the
638 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
topicofbiddingforoil-drilling rights: Ifonewinsatractagainsttwoorthreeothershemay
feel fine about his good fortune. But how should he feel if he won against 50 others? Ill. REGRESSIONTOTHE Finally, behind both curses is the general phenomenon of regression to themean, whereby
MEAN
individualsselectedonthebasisofexceptionalcharacteristics previouslyexhibitedwill,with
highprobability, becomelessexceptional infuture.
The Allais paradox, due to Nobel Prize-winning economist Maurice Allais (1953) was
tested experimentally (Tversky and Kahneman, 1982; Conlisk, 1989) to show that people
are consistently inconsistent in their judgments. The Ellsberg paradox on ambiguity aver-
sion was introduced in the Ph.D.thesis of Daniel Ellsberg (Ellsberg, 1962), who went on to
become a military analyst at the RAND Corporation and to leak documents known as The
Pentagon Papers, which contributed to the end of the Vietnam war and the resignation of
President Nixon. Fox and Tversky (1995) describe a further study of ambiguity aversion.
Mark Machina (2005) gives an overview of choice under uncertainty and how it can vary
fromexpected utilitytheory.
Therehasbeenarecentoutpouring ofmore-or-less popularbooksonhumanirrational-
ity. The best known is Predictably Irrational (Ariely, 2009); others include Sway (Brafman
and Brafman, 2009), Nudge (Thaler and Sunstein, 2009), Kluge (Marcus, 2009), How We
Decide (Lehrer, 2009) and On Being Certain (Burton, 2009). They complement the classic
(Kahneman et al., 1982) and the article that started it all (Kahneman and Tversky, 1979).
Thefieldofevolutionary psychology (Buss,2005), ontheotherhand, hasruncountertothis
literature, arguing that humans are quite rational in evolutionarily appropriate contexts. Its
adherents pointoutthatirrationality