bjects as well as object characteristics. A simple example of an outdoor scene representation is illustrated in Figure 14.25. Scene desriptions such as this can be formulated by interpreting region descriptions of the type shown in Figure 14.16. The interpretation knowledge will be encoded in production rules or other representation scheme. For example, a rule used to identify a sky region in an outdoor color scene would be instantiated with sky properties such as intensity, color, shape, and so forth. A rule to identify houses in an aerial photograph would be instantiated with conditions of area, compactness, texture, type of border, and so on, as illustrated in Figure 14.26. Rule conditions will sometimes have fuzzy or probability predicates to allow for similarity or partial linear I Scene botrdn ary = building ,/ \\ region 1 mad' brick divided Color hasblue grey (#) made-of type (ii II) hull rrten. lv type -vertieal Figure 14.25 Associative network scene representation. Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 316 matches rather than absolute ones. Rule conclusions will be rated by likelihood or certainty factors instead of complete certainty. Identification of objects can then be made on the basis of a likelihood score. In Figure 14.26 (a) pairs of numbers are given in the antecedent to suggest acceptable condition levels comparable to Dempster Shafer probabilities (the values in the figure are arbitrarily chosen with a scale of 0 to 1.0) When rule-based identification is used, the vision system may be given an initial goal of identifying each region. This can be accomplished with a high-level goal statement of the followig type. (label region (or (rgn building) (rgn = bushes) (rgn = car) (rgn = house) (rgn road) (rgn shadow) (rgn tree))) Other forms of matching may also be used in the interpretation process. For example, a decision tree may be used in which region attributes and relation values determine the branch taken at each node when descending the tree The le