s Aristotle. Agoodaccount ofthehistory of Megarianand Stoiclogic isgiven
by Benson Mates(1953).
Theidea of reducing logical inference toapurely mechanical process applied to afor-
mallanguageisdueto Wilhelm Leibniz(1646 1716), althoughhehadlimitedsuccessinim-
plementing theideas. George Boole(1847)introduced thefirstcomprehensive andworkable
system of formal logic in his book The Mathematical Analysis of Logic. Boole s logic was
closely modeled on the ordinary algebra of real numbers and used substitution of logically
equivalent expressions as its primary inference method. Although Boole s system still fell
shortoffullpropositional logic,itwascloseenoughthatothermathematicianscouldquickly
fill in the gaps. Schro der (1877) described conjunctive normal form, while Horn form was
introduced muchlaterby Alfred Horn(1951). Thefirstcomprehensive exposition ofmodern
propositional logic (and first-order logic) is found in Gottlob Frege s (1879) Begriffschrift
( Concept Writing or Conceptual Notation ).
Thefirstmechanical devicetocarryoutlogicalinferences wasconstructed bythethird
Earl of Stanhope (1753 1816). The Stanhope Demonstrator could handle syllogisms and
certain inferences in the theory of probability. William Stanley Jevons, one of those who
improved upon and extended Boole s work, constructed his logical piano in 1869 to per-
form inferences in Boolean logic. An entertaining and instructive history of these and other
early mechanical devices for reasoning is given by Martin Gardner (1968). The first pub-
lished computer program for logical inference was the Logic Theorist of Newell, Shaw,
and Simon (1957). This program was intended to model human thought processes. Mar-
tin Davis(1957) hadactually designed aprogram thatcameup withaproof in1954, but the
Logic Theorist sresultswerepublished slightlyearlier.
Truthtablesasamethodoftestingvalidityorunsatisfiabilityinpropositionallogicwere
introducedindependentlyby Emil Post(1921)and Ludwig Wittgenstein(1922). Inthe1930