by being told (instruction). 16.11. Try to determine whether inductive learning requires more inference than analogical learning. Give reasons for your conclusion. Which of the two types of learning, in general, wo Vld be more reliable in the sense that the knowledge learned is logically valid? 16.12. Give examples of each of the different types of learning as they relate to learning you have recently experienced. 16.13. Give an estimate of the number of hits required to Store knowledge for 5(X) if then rules, where each rule has five conjunctive terms or conditions in the antecedent. Can you estimate what fraction of your total knowledge is represented in sonic set of 500 rules? 16.14. Try to give a quantitative measure for knowledge. Explain hy your measure is or is not reasonable. Give examples to support your arguments. 16.15. Explain why robustness in a learner is important in real world environments. 17 Early Work in Machine Learning 17.1 INTRODUCTION Attempts to develop autonomous learning systems began in the 1950s while cybernetics was still an active area of research. These early designs were self-adapting systems which modified their own structures in an attempt to produce an optimal response to some input stimuli. Although several different approaches were pursued during this period, we will consider only four of the more representative designs. One approach was believed to be an approximate model of a small network of neurons. A second approach was initially based on a form of rote learning. It was later modified to learn by adaptive parameter adjustment. The third approach used self-adapting stochastic automata models, while the fourth approach was modeled after survival of the fittest through population genetics. In the remainder of this chapter, we will examine examples of the four methods and reserve our descriptions of more classical Al learning approaches for Chapters 18. 19. and 20. The systems we use as examples here are famous ones that have re