fknowledgein AI,economics, anddistributed systems.
EXERCISES
12.1 Define an ontology in first-order logic for tic-tac-toe. The ontology should contain
situations,actions,squares,players,marks(X,O,orblank),andthenotionofwinning,losing,
ordrawing agame. Also define the notion ofaforced win(ordraw): aposition from which
a player can force a win (or draw) with the right sequence of actions. Write axioms for the
domain. (Note: The axioms that enumerate the different squares and that characterize the
winning positions are rather long. You need not write these out in full, but indicate clearly
whattheylooklike.)
474 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
12.2 Figure 12.1 shows the top levels of a hierarchy for everything. Extend it to include
as many real categories as possible. A good way to do this is to cover all the things in your
everyday life. This includes objects and events. Start with waking up, and proceed in an
orderly fashion noting everything that you see, touch, do, and think about. For example,
a random sampling produces music, news, milk, walking, driving, gas, Soda Hall, carpet,
talking, Professor Fateman,chicken curry,tongue, 7,sun,thedailynewspaper, andsoon.
You should produce both a single hierarchy chart (on a large sheet of paper) and a
listing of objects and categories with the relations satisfied by members of each category.
Everyobjectshould beinacategory, andeverycategoryshouldbeinthehierarchy.
12.3 Develop a representational system for reasoning about windows in a window-based
computerinterface. Inparticular, yourrepresentation shouldbeabletodescribe: Thestateofawindow: minimized,displayed, ornonexistent. Whichwindow(ifany)istheactivewindow. Thepositionofeverywindowatagiventime. Theorder(fronttoback)ofoverlapping windows. Theactions of creating, destroying, resizing, and moving windows; changing the state
ofawindow;andbringing awindowtothefront. Treattheseactions asatomic;thatis,
do not deal with the issue of relating them to mouse actions. Give ax