isodes.
c. Modify the environment so that 30 of the time the agent ends up at an unintended
destination(chosenrandomlyfromtheothervisibleverticesifany;otherwise,nomove
at all). This is a crude model of the motion errors of a real robot. Modify the agent
so that when such an error is detected, it finds out where it is and then constructs a
plan to get back to where it was and resume the old plan. Remember that sometimes
gettingbacktowhereitwasmightalsofail! Showanexampleoftheagentsuccessfully
overcomingtwosuccessive motionerrorsandstillreaching thegoal.
160 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
d. Nowtrytwodifferentrecoveryschemesafteranerror: (1)headfortheclosestvertexon
theoriginalroute;and(2)replanaroutetothegoalfromthe newlocation. Comparethe
performance ofthe three recovery schemes. Would theinclusion ofsearch costs affect
thecomparison?
e. Now suppose that there are locations from which the view is identical. (For example,
supposetheworldisagridwithsquareobstacles.) Whatkindofproblemdoestheagent
nowface? Whatdosolutions looklike?
4.12 Suppose that an agent is in a 3 3 maze environment like the one shown in Fig-
ure4.19. Theagentknowsthatitsinitiallocationis(1,1),thatthegoalisat(3,3),andthatthe
actions Up, Down, Left,Right have theirusual effects unless blocked byawall. Theagent
does notknow wheretheinternal wallsare. Inanygiven state, theagent perceives thesetof
legalactions;itcanalsotellwhetherthestateisoneithasvisitedbefore.
a. Explainhowthisonlinesearchproblemcanbeviewedasanofflinesearchinbelief-state
space, where the initial belief state includes all possible environment configurations.
Howlargeistheinitialbeliefstate? Howlargeisthespaceofbeliefstates?
b. Howmanydistinct perceptsarepossible intheinitialstate?
c. Describe the first few branches of a contingency plan for this problem. How large
(roughly) isthecompleteplan?
Noticethatthiscontingencyplanisasolutionforeverypossibleenvironmentfittingthegiven
description. Therefore, interleaving of search and executi