anging behaviour is controlled by a parameter 7 called temperature. We associate high temperatures with random behaviour, much like the movement of molecules in a physical material. In Simulated Annealing, we start with a high value of T and gradually decrease it to make the search more and more deterministic. The probability of making a move at any point of time is given by a sigmoid function of the gain AE and temperature T as given below, PIC.N) 11 et?) (4.1) where P is the probability of making a move from the current node C to the new node N, AE (eval(N) -eval(C)) is the gain in value and T is an externally controlled parameter called temperature. Note that the above formula is for maximization of the evaluation function value. For minimization, the negative sign in the denominator will be removed. The probability as a function of the two values is illustrated in Figure 4.6. The Y axis shows the probability value, and the X axis varies AE. The different plots are for different values of T. 4 h(n) Nodes in the search space FIGURE 4.5 A jagged surface with many local optima, but a broader trend towards the optimum is well suited for Simulated Annealing. Observe that the footprint of HC is very small. 104 a a ee a! ee AE FIGURE 4.6 The probability curves (Sigmoid function) for different values of T. The probability of making a move increases as AE increases. For very large T, the algorithm behaves like Random Walk. As T tends to zero, the behaviour approaches the Hill Climbing algorithm. 0.0 When the temperature tends to infinity, the probability is uniformly 0.5, irrespective of the AE value. This means that there is equal probability of staying in the current node, and shifting to the neighbour. This is like the Random Walk algorithm. For finite values of 7, one can see that when AE is positive, the probability is greater than half; and when it is negative, the probability is less than half. Thus, a move to a better node is more likely to be made, than a move to