d be a rectangle. The important point is that Galileo showed that we can create representations, and that the representations can stand for something else. In fact, the same representation can stand for different things. We shall revisit this notion when we look at the semantics of First Order Logic later in the book. It was the English philosopher Thomas Hobbes (1588-1679) who first put forward the view that thinking is the manipulation of symbols (Haugeland, 1985). Hobbes felt that thought was expressed in phantasms or thought parcels , and was clear and rational when it followed methodical rules. Galileo had said that all reality is mathematical, in the sense that everything is made up of particles, and our sensing of smell or taste was how we reacted to those particles. Hobbes extended this notion to say that thought too was made up of (expressed in) particles which the thinker manipulated. Hobbes had used the analogy of thought parcels with words in a language. However, he had no answer to the question of how a symbol can mean anything, because he had given up on the idea of thoughts being in the image of reality. That is a question that we can say is still unresolved. To some extent now, we can say though that meaning arises via explicit association with, or an interpretation of, something that is known independently. Hobbes parcels were material in nature. He would have been at home with the modern view of materialism in which one would think of the mind as something that emerges out of activity in the brain, which was the flow of electrons and the movement of neurotransmitters across synapses. It was Ren Descartes (1596-1650) who said that what the mind did was to manipulate mental symbols. Descartes was a pioneer in the development of algebraic systems. His analytic geometry showed an alternate symbolic way of representing lines and figures and reasoning with them. Galileo had shown that motion could be described using geometry. Descartes moved one more ste