a is that the strategy freezes the choices for the player, in our case MAX. That is, MAX has already decided the strategy, or the set of choices. The following figure shows two strategies for MAX in the given game tree. Ay i Ww D Ww . OXOIO) is , 2 p (z 2 oz FIGURE 8.9 Strategies in a game tree are subtrees that represent choices of one player. The figure shows two strategies for MAX. Once a player decides her strategy, the outcome of the game depends upon the opponent. Assuming that the opponent plays rationally, the value of the strategy for MAX will be the minimum value of a leaf node in the strategy, because that is where MIN will drive the game. Given a game tree, the optimal strategy for MAX is the strategy with the highest value. If this happens to be 1 (or win) then MAX has a winning strategy. In any case, the objective of both the players is to find their optimal strategies. Once both have chosen their strategies, the game played will be the path that is the intersection of the two strategies (the two subtrees), as shown in Figure 8.10. The thick grey lines are a strategy for MAX, the thick dotted lines the strategy of MIN, and the thick black lines the resulting game path. Observe that the strategy for MAX shown in the figure is not an optimal one, leading to a draw. D LP lz W W D . W DIv W fo ra I i x geet Se fey, Cry Sn a a ra F ae OO Q OOO O88 OO ue Bs Pi a LP 2 2 Diz FIGURE 8.10 The subtree in grey arrows represents a strategy for MAX, and the one in dotted arrows, a strategy for MIN. The game played as a result of these two strategies is the path shown with black arrows, which is the intersection of the two subtrees. Selection of the optimal strategy requires solving the game tree. Observe that the solution is a subtree, being a strategy, like the solution of an And-Or problem. In fact, finding the strategy is like solving the game tree as an And-Or problem. Each player has to choose her own moves, the Or choices, and cater to all possible responses b