hester, University of Delaware; Karen L. Mc Graw, Cognitive Technologies; and Gordon Novak, University of Texas, Austin. Finally, I wish to thank the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department of the University of Texas at El Paso for the generous use of their facilities. PART 1 Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Overview of Artificial Intelligence Artificial Intelligence (Al), as we know it today, is a relatively new field. Even though some groundwork had been laid earlier, Al began in earnest with the emergence of the modern computer during the 1940s and 1950s. It was the ability of these w electronic machines to store large amounts of information and process it at very high speeds that gave researchers the vision of building systems which could emulate some human abilities. During the past forty years, we have witnessed the realization of many of these early researchers' visions. We have seen computer systems shrink in size and cost by several orders of magnitude. We have seen memories increase in storage capacity to the point where they equal a significant fraction of the human brain's storage capacity. We have seen the speed and reliability of systems improve dramatically. And, we have seen the introduction of many impressive software tools. Given these new hardware and software systems and our improved understanding of Homo sapiens, we are on the threshold of witnessing a whole new horizon of exciting innovations. During the next few decades, we will witness the introduction of many intelligent computer systems never dreamed of by the early visionaries. We will see the introduction of systems which equal or exceed human abilities, and see them become an important part of most business and government operations as well as our own daily activities. 2-- 2 Overview of Artificial Ititelligence Chap. 1 1.1 WHAT IS Al? Whit is Al exactly? As a beginning we offer the followirtig definition: Al is a branch of computer science concerned with the study a