outheast.
Keeping the HMM model fixed, explore the effect on localization and path accuracy as the
southeasterly tendency increases, fordifferent valuesof (cid:2).
15.8 Consideraversionofthevacuumrobot(page582)thathasthepolicyofgoingstraight
foraslong as itcan; only when itencounters an obstacle does itchange toanew (randomly
selected) heading. Tomodelthisrobot, eachstate inthemodelconsists ofa(location, head-
ing)pair. Implementthismodelandseehowwellthe Viterbialgorithmcantrackarobotwith
this model. The robot s policy is more constrained than the random-walk robot; does that
meanthatpredictions ofthemostlikelypatharemoreaccurate?
15.9 This exercise is concerned with filtering in an environment with no landmarks. Con-
sideravacuumrobotinanemptyroom,representedbyann mrectangulargrid. Therobot s
location is hidden; theonly evidence available totheobserver isanoisy location sensor that
gives an approximation to the robot s location. If the robot is at location (x,y) then with
probability .1 the sensor gives the correct location, with probability .05 each it reports one
of the 8 locations immediately surrounding (x,y), with probability .025 each it reports one
of the 16 locations that surround those 8, and with the remaining probability of .1 it reports no reading. The robot s policy is to pick a direction and follow it with probability .8 on
eachstep;therobotswitchestoarandomlyselectednewheadingwithprobability .2(orwith
608 Chapter 15. Probabilistic Reasoning over Time
S S
t t 1
X X
t t 1
Z Z
t t 1
Figure 15.21 A Bayesian network representation of a switching Kalman filter. The
switching variable St is a discrete state variable whose value determines the transition
model for the continuous state variables Xt. For any discrete state i, the transition model
P(Xt 1 Xt,St i) isa linear Gaussian model,just asin a regular Kalmanfilter. Thetran-
sitionmodelforthediscretestate,P(St 1 St),canbethoughtofasamatrix,asinahidden
Markovmodel.
probability 1ifitencounters awall). Imple