terminology); rather it is or-
ganized into coherent groups. One could trace the motivation in computer vision of finding
regions and curves back to this insight. The Gestaltists also drew attention to the figure ground phenomenon a contour separating two image regions that, in the world, are at
different depths, appears tobelong onlytothenearerregion, the figure, andnotthefarther
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 967
region,the ground. Thecomputervisionproblem ofclassifying imagecurvesaccording to
theirsignificance inthescenecanbethoughtofasageneralization ofthisinsight.
The period after World War II was marked by renewed activity. Most significant was
theworkof J.J.Gibson(1950,1979),whopointedouttheimportanceofopticalflow,aswell
astexturegradientsintheestimationofenvironmentalvariablessuchassurfaceslantandtilt.
Hereemphasizedtheimportanceofthestimulusandhowrichitwas. Gibsonemphasizedthe
roleoftheactiveobserverwhoseself-directedmovementfacilitatesthepickupofinformation
abouttheexternalenvironment.
Computer vision was founded in the 1960s. Roberts s (1963) thesis at MIT was one
of the earliest publications in the field, introducing key ideas such as edge detection and
model-based matching. There is an urban legend that Marvin Minsky assigned the problem
of solving computervisiontoagraduatestudentasasummerproject. Accordingto Minsky
the legend is untrue it was actually an undergraduate student. But it was an exceptional
undergraduate, Gerald Jay Sussman(whoisnowaprofessor at MIT)andthetaskwasnotto solve vision, buttoinvestigate someaspectsofit.
Inthe1960sand1970s,progresswasslow,hamperedconsiderably bythelackofcom-
putationalandstorageresources. Low-levelvisualprocessing receivedalotofattention. The
widely used Canny edge-detection technique was introduced in Canny (1986). Techniques
forfindingtextureboundariesbasedonmultiscale,multiorientationfilteringofimagesdateto
work such as Malik and Perona (1990). Combining multiple clues brightness, texture and
color for f