 the loser. A game can be formally defined as a kind of search problem with the
followingelements: S : Theinitialstate, whichspecifieshowthegameissetupatthestart.
0 PLAYER(s): Defineswhichplayerhasthemoveinastate. ACTIONS(s): Returnsthesetoflegalmovesinastate. RESULT(s,a): Thetransitionmodel,whichdefinestheresultofamove.
TERMINALTEST TERMINAL-TEST(s): A terminal test, which is true when the game is over and false
otherwise. Stateswherethegamehasendedarecalled terminalstates.
TERMINALSTATES UTILITY(s,p): Autilityfunction(alsocalledanobjectivefunctionorpayofffunction),
definesthefinalnumericvalueforagamethatendsinterminal statesforaplayerp. In
chess,theoutcomeisawin,loss,ordraw,withvalues 1,0,or 1. Somegameshavea
2
widervarietyofpossibleoutcomes;thepayoffsinbackgammonrangefrom0to 192.
Azero-sum game is (confusingly) defined as one where the total payoff toall players
isthe sameforevery instance ofthegame. Chessiszero-sum because everygamehas
payoffofeither0 1,1 0or 1 1. Constant-sum wouldhavebeenabetterterm,
2 2
but zero-sum is traditional and makes sense if you imagine each player is charged an
entryfeeof 1.
2
GAMETREE
The initial state, ACTIONS function, and RESULT function define the game tree for the
game a tree where the nodes are game states and the edges are moves. Figure 5.1 shows
part of the game tree for tic-tac-toe (noughts and crosses). From the initial state, MAX has
nine possible moves. Play alternates between MAX s placing an X and MIN s placing an O
Section5.2. Optimal Decisions in Games 163
until we reach leaf nodes corresponding to terminal states such that one player has three in
a row or all the squares are filled. The number on each leaf node indicates the utility value
ofthe terminal state from the point ofview of MAX; high values are assumed tobe good for
MAX andbadfor MIN(whichishowtheplayersgettheirnames).
For tic-tac-toe the game tree is relatively small fewer than 9! 362,880 terminal
nodes. But for chess there are over 1040 nodes, so the gam