sages are 5 between: 4 and: 10 - "a Boolean test" 'aecdb' cor,y Frorr: 2 to: 5 "copies position 2 of the string to position 5" #(a b Cx) at: 4 rut: #(d e) "the elements of #(d e) replace x in the array" 'texas' size between: 2 + 2 and: 4 factorial setl add: () + ii "add new element to set 1" The last two examples above contain messages within messages, while the last example has a message delimited with parentheses. In executing a message Sec. 8.3 Objects. Classes, Messages and Methods 153 without parentheses, the execution proceeds left to right with unary messages taking precedence followed by binary, and then keyword. Therefore, the messages 'texas' size and 4 factorial are completed before the keyword part beiween:and: in the last example above. Methods Procedures are called methods. They determine the behavior of an object when a message is sent to the object. Methods are the algorithms or sequence of instructions executed by an object. For example, in order to respond to the message 5 + 7. the object 5 must initiate a method to find the sum of the integer numbers 5 and 7. On completion of the operation, the method returns the object 12 to the sending object. Methods are defined much like procedures in other programming languages using the constructs and syntax of the given OOS. The constructs used to build higher level methods are defined in terms of a number of primitive operations and basic methods provided as part of the. OOS. The primitives of an OOS are coded in some host language such as an assembler language or C. For example. the operation for integer addition used in some versions of Smalltalk would be written as + a Number <Same Type Of Object self a Number> iflrue: t<lnteger Addition self a Number>l it Faise: (super + a Numberl The name of this method is + and the argument is an object of type a Nuinber. The primitive operation Samelype Of Objcct tests Whether the two object arguments are of the same type (instances of the same class). The variable 