ed due to mistakes committed while typing. A typical example is netwrk instead of network. Orthographic errors: These, on the other hand, result due to a lack of comprehension of the concerned language on part of the user. Example of such spelling errors are arithmetic, wellcome and accomodation. Phonetic errors: These result due to poor cognition on part of the listner. The word rough could be spelt as ruff and listen as lisen. Note that both the misspelled words ruff and lisen have the same phonetic pronunciation as their actual spellings. Such errors may distort misspelled words more than typographic editing actions that cause a misspelling (viz. insertion, deletion, transposition, or substitution error) as in case of ruff. Words like piece, peace and peas, reed and read and quite and quiet may all be spelt correctly but can lead to confusion depending on the context. 15.6.2 Spell Checking Techniques One could imagine a naive speil checker as a large corpus of correct words. Thus if a word in the text being corrected does not match with one in the corpus then it results in a spelling error. An exhaustive corpus would of course be a mandatory requirement. Spell checking techniques can be broadly classified into three categories Natural Language Processing . 327 (a) Non-Word Error Detection: This process involves the detection of misspelled words or non-words. For example The word soper is a non-word; its correct form being super (or maybe sober). The most commonly used techniques to detect such errors are the N-gram analysis and Dictionary look-up. As discussed earlier, N-gram techniques make use of the probabilities of occurrence of N-grams in a large corpus of text to decide on the error in the word. Those strings that contain highly infrequent sequences are treated as cases of spelling errors. Note that in the context of spell checkers we take N-grams to be a sequence of letters (alphabet) rather than words. Here we try to predict the next letter (alphabet) rat