imated to 1~p,,- o(S). Taking this effect too into account we modify the equation for m(S, t+ 1) as m S, t+ 1) 2 m(S, 1) - (FSVfoy) Ps {1 - Pm OCS) m S, 1). + FSMfayd Ope ASML Y} {1 = py 0(S)} Neglecting the product of p, and p,,, m(S, t+ 1) 2 m(S, 0.) FSW) (1 pe: OSE 2) = py + (S)} This equation speaks of how the schemata survive over generations and signifies the fundamental theorem of genetic algorithms called the Schema theorem. 23.8 ANT ALGORITHMS As a tail-ender and food for thought we take a brief look at the manner in which one of nature's creations Ants can trigger our search for new algorithms. Ants are capable of navigating complex terrains in search of food. They also find their way back to the nest. Over a period of time a colony of ants are able to find the best or shortest path between the food source and the nest. So how do they achieve this? As they navigate they keep laying pheromones which tend to modify their environment and serves as a means for communication amongst them in the colony. Pheromones are chemicals that are volatile and give way over a period of time. All ants choose to move over tracks of high pheromone concentration. In the beginning each ant goes in search of food and as they move the pheromone is laid along the path. When an ant finds the food source it Starts its return journey along the same path and adds to the pheromone concentration along it. Since the colony comprises a large number of ants, a parallel search ensues. Chances are that several of them discover the food source through different paths. Naturally the ant that found the closest path (out of all those discovered so far) would over a period of time shuttie up and down more number of times than its counterparts. This increases the pheromone concentration of the shortest path and forces other ants too to choose it. Over a period of time only the shortest path exists while other paths fade away due to pheromone volatility. Figure 23.13 depicts two ants A and B using 