istics to select only those formulae which are likely to be useful. One heuristic used by the system is based on the idea that relationships in Th,A-8H,t'(A) where UNKNOWN: Th (AI CONSISTENT: Th V (A) COMMON: Th Figure 20.4 Sirroroary of a.efo I USEFUL: Th U bl A)l pr analogical ir.krenc. Sec. 20.3 Examples of Analogical Learning Systems 425 one domain should bold in other, similar domains (in two domains governed by physical laws). In our example, this is the law related to zero flow rates into a junction and the corresponding reusable zero-sum formula for general, physical flows. Thus, only those uninstantiated abstract formulas found in the base analogue would be permitted as conjectures in the target analogue solution. Furthermore. this same heuristic requires that the selected formulae be atomic formulae of the form f(a1, a2.....ak) are permitted, whereas formulae containing multiple conjunctive Or disjunctive terms such as f T(a,b) &f,(b,c) Vf3(,c,d.e) are not permitted. These formulae must also satisfy the usefulness condition Figure 20.4). A heuristic which helps to further prune the abstract soluti,ns described above uses the target domain problem PT, to suggest a related query in the source domain. The conesponding source domain query PS is then used in turn to select only those formulae which are both abstractions (as selected above) and are also relevant. For example, the target query PT = "Find the flowrate in the given pipe structure" is used to find the analogous source domain query PS = "Find the current in the given electrical structure." This query is then used to determine which facts are used to solve PS. These facts are then used as a guide in selecting fts (formulae) for the target domain to solve PT. Other system heuristics require that formulae must all come from th.' same domain, that more general abstractions be preferred over less geaera one., and that for a given abstraction, instances which require the fewest conjectures be chosen. In ge