 less intelligence and more sense than we have. Don Herold (1889-1966), American humorist, writer, illustrator and cartoonist Computers have. an entirely deserved reputation for lacking common sense. Anyone who has ever received a bill for $0.00 from an accounting program can attest to this fact. An AI program may possess more knowledge than an accounting program, but it still computes using primitives that it knows npthing about. For example, consider the following interaction between a medical diagnosis system and a human (adapted from Lenat and Guha [1990]): System: How old is the patient? Human (looking at his 1957 Chevrolet): 33. System: Are there any spots on the patient s body? Human (noticing rust spots): Yes. System: What color are the spots? Human: Reddish-brown. , System: The patient has measles (probability 0.9). Obviously, the system does not really know what measles are, what spots are, or what the difference between cars and people is. Even within its specialty, the system is unaware of fundamental facts, for example, that humans have two arms. Clearly, what the system lacks is knowledge. So far in this book, we have seen a number of techniques that can be used to enable an AI program to represent and reason with common sense knowledge. For example, in predicate logic, one can state facts such as if you die, you are dead at all later times. Frames can describe everyday objects, and scripts can describe the typical sequences of events. Nonmonotonic logics can support default reasoning, an important aspect of common sense. As of yet, however, no program can match the common sense reasoning powers of a five-year-old child. This is due, in part, to the large amount of knowledge required for common sense. In Section 10.3, we discussed the CYC program, one attempt to codify this information in a large knowledge base. In this chapter, we look more closely at the kinds of knowledge such a system must possess. In particular, we investigate how Common Sense 409