 one corresponding to his not being a pacifist. The theory of DL does not say anything about how to choose between the two, But see Reiter and Criscuolo [1981], Touretzky [1986], and Rich [ 1983] for discussions of this issue. A second important difference between these two theories is that, in DL, the nonmonotonic expressions are rules of inference rather than expressions in the language. Thus they cannot be manipulated by the other tules of inference. This leads to some unexpected results. For example, given the two rules A:B 4A:B Cc B and no assertion about A, no conclusion about B will be drawn, since neither inference rule applies. Abduction Standard logic performs deduction. Given two axioms: Wx: AQ) > BUY) A(C) we can conclude B(C) using deduction. But what about applying the implication in reverse? For example, suppose the axiom we have is. Wx: Measles(x) > Spots(x) The axiom says that having measles implies having spots. But suppose we notice spots. We might like to conclude measles. Such a conclusion is not licensed by the rules of standard logic and it may be wrong, but it may be the best guess we can make about what is going on. Deriving conclusions in this way is thus another form of default reasoning. We call this specific form abductive reasoning. More precisely, the process of abductive reasoning can be described as, Given two wff s (A > 8) and (8), for any expressions A and B, if it is consistent to assume A, do so. In many domains, abductive reasoning is particularly useful if some measure of certainty is attached to the resulting expressions. These certainty measures quantify the risk that the abductive reasoning process is 5 What we mean by the expression maximal consistent augmentation is that no additional default niles can be applied without violating consistency, But its is important to note that only expressions generated by the application of the stated inference rules to the original knowledge are allowed in an extension. Gratuitous additi