nvolve misinformation and deception too. Army generals fighting wars operate similarly with genuinely incomplete information. They also attempt to glean information about the resources and options of the enemy, and likewise the flow of information yields opportunities of misinformation and deception. War and spies provide a multitude of engaging stories concerning information exchange and deception . Since both sides usually suffer casualties, wars can be seen as negative sum games, though sometimes one side may have some positive payoff. A price war, likewise, inflicts losses on the competing sellers, and can be modelled as a negative sum game, though if the buyers are included in the game too then it becomes a multi-player zero sum game. Cooperation is an example of a positive sum game, whether it is between students studying together for an examination, or when large corporations collude to jack up prices. Observe that some of the examples above do not have alternating moves, and neither is the outcome of their actions deterministic. In the domain of recreation, Checkers (also known as Draughts), Chess, Othello and Go are examples of board games that have received the attention of programmers. One of the earliest to make a mark was Arthur Samuel's Checkers playing program (Samuel, 1959). It was a program that improved its performance with experience, and became news when it was able to beat its creator! The learning it did was essentially parametric reinforcement learning, tuning weights of its evaluation function based on the outcome of each game. But it contributed to the wild notion of computers taking over the world, a la Victor Frankenstein s robotic creature (Shelley, 2001), in the novel written by Mary Shelley in 1818. Amongst the incomplete information games, the most successful has been the implementation of Scrabble. In fact, the program Maven, now commercially available, can easily outplay human players (Sheppard, 2002). This is not surprising given th