hreturnsalistofactions allowedinstate s; The step-cost function c(s,a,s (cid:2) ) note that this cannot be used until the agent knows
(cid:2)
thats istheoutcome; and GOAL-TEST(s).
Note in particular that the agent cannot determine RESULT(s,a) except by actually being
in s and doing a. For example, in the maze problem shown in Figure 4.19, the agent does
not know that going Up from (1,1) leads to (1,2); nor, having done that, does it know that
going Down will take it back to (1,1). This degree of ignorance can be reduced in some
applications for example,arobotexplorermightknowhowitsmovementactionsworkand
beignorantonlyofthelocations ofobstacles.
13 Theterm online iscommonlyusedincomputersciencetorefertoalgorithmsthatmustprocessinputdata
astheyarereceivedratherthanwaitingfortheentireinputdatasettobecomeavailable.
148 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
3 G
2
1 S
1 2 3
Figure4.19 Asimplemazeproblem. Theagentstartsat S andmustreach Gbutknows
nothingoftheenvironment.
G
S A
S G
S A
G
(a) (b)
Figure4.20 (a)Twostatespacesthatmightleadanonlinesearchagentintoadeadend.
Anygivenagentwillfailinatleastoneofthesespaces. (b)Atwo-dimensionalenvironment
that can cause an online search agent to follow an arbitrarily inefficient route to the goal.
Whicheverchoice the agentmakes, the adversaryblocksthat route with anotherlong, thin
wall,sothatthepathfollowedismuchlongerthanthebestpossiblepath.
Finally, the agent might have access to an admissible heuristic function h(s) that es-
timates the distance from the current state to a goal state. For example, in Figure 4.19, the
agentmightknowthelocationofthegoalandbeabletousethe Manhattan-distanceheuristic.
Typically,theagent sobjectiveistoreachagoalstatewhileminimizingcost. (Another
possibleobjectiveissimplytoexploretheentireenvironment.) Thecostisthetotalpathcost
of the path that the agent actually travels. It is common to compare this cost with the path
cost of the path the agent would follow if it knew the search space in advance that is, t