e processing applications that involve translation capabilities. They facilitate the translation of words, phrases and sentences from one language to another. Tagging of corpora is done part manually and part automatically. A concordance is a typical term used with reference to corpora. Concordance in general is an index or list of the important words in a text or a group of texts. Most often when we refer to a corpus, we are looking for concordances. Concordances can give us the notion of how often a word occurs (frequency), or, even, does not occur. Another term that we often come across when we deal with corpus processing is a collocation. A collocation is a collection of words that are often observed together in a text. If we are talking about Christmas, then the words Christmas gifts forms a collocation. A chain smoker, a hard nut, extremely beautiful, are all examples 322 Artificial Intelligence of collocations. Note that we do not generally refer to a smoker as an intense or severe smoker, nor do we remark someone to be tremendously beautiful. Collocations can thus aid us in the search for the apt words. 15.5.2 Counting the elements in a Corpus Counting the number of words in a corpus as also the distinct words in it can yield valuable information regarding the probability of the occurrence of a word given an incomplete string in the language under consideration. These probabilities can be used to predict a word that will follow. How should counting be done depends on the application scenario. Should the punctuation marks like , (comma), ; (semicolon) and the period (.) be treated as a word or not has to be decided. The question mark (?) aliows us to understand that something is being asked. Other issues in counting are whether to treat words like Jn and in (case sensitization), book and books (singular and plural) as distinct ones. Thus we arrive at two terms called Types and Tokens. The former means the number of distinct words in the corpus while the latte