 P(f e) and P(d) values. We compute the best alignments with the current values
oftheseparametersinthe Estep,thenupdatetheestimatesinthe Mstepanditeratethe
processuntilconvergence.
23.5 SPEECH RECOGNITION
SPEECH Speechrecognitionisthetaskofidentifyingasequenceofwordsutteredbyaspeaker, given
RECOGNITION
the acoustic signal. It has become one of the mainstream applications of AI millions of
Section23.5. Speech Recognition 913
people interact with speech recognition systems every day to navigate voice mail systems,
search the Web from mobile phones, and other applications. Speech is an attractive option
whenhands-free operation isnecessary, aswhenoperating machinery.
Speech recognition is difficult because the sounds made by a speaker are ambiguous
and, well, noisy. As a well-known example, the phrase recognize speech sounds almost
the same as wreck a nice beach when spoken quickly. Even this short example shows
several of the issues that make speech problematic. First, segmentation: written words in
SEGMENTATION
English have spaces between them, but in fast speech there are no pauses in wreck a nice that would distinguish it as a multiword phrase as opposed to the single word recognize. Second, coarticulation: when speaking quickly the s sound at the end of nice merges
COARTICULATION
with the b sound at the beginning of beach, yielding something that is close to a sp. Another problem that does not show up in this example is homophones words like to, HOMOPHONES too, and two thatsoundthesamebutdifferinmeaning.
Wecanviewspeech recognition asaproblem inmost-likely-sequence explanation. As
we saw in Section 15.2, this is the problem of computing the most likely sequence of state
variables, x , given a sequence of observations e . In this case the state variables are the
1:t 1:t
words,andtheobservationsaresounds. Moreprecisely,anobservationisavectoroffeatures
extractedfromtheaudiosignal. Asusual,themostlikelysequencecanbecomputedwiththe
helpof Bayes ruletobe:
argmax P(word 