ash dishes, and the term robot fell away. This characterization of robotics is similar to the one we proposed for Al in Chapter 1. There, we characterized Al as the study of problems in which humans currently perform better than computers. As a result, programs that solve calculus problems are no longer considered artificial intelligence.4 These moving-target definitions accurately differentiate actual Al work and robotics work. Al tends to focus on uniquely human capabilities, while robotics aims to produce physical, animate behaviors. As we have seen in this chapter, however, many interesting problems lie at the intersection of Al and robotics, and only by combining techniques from both fields will we be able to design intelligent robots that live in the world. EXERCISES OMRON On MRL g eg SLUR GE PHO STRARE VERE bmg 46 45 Hath PC -CEREAEIRILELY CENT AERA DO BE be On earn 9 1. Describe scenarios in which the following features are critical: (a) Reactivity The robot must react quickly to a changing environment. (b) Robustness The robot must act appropriately, in spite of incomplete or inexact sensory data. (c) Recoverability When a plan fails to bring about expected results, the robot must find another way to achieve its goal. Why aren t the planning techniques described in Chapter 13 sufficient to ensure these characteristics? 3 David Grossman, after-dinner speech delivered at the 7th NSF Grantees Conference, Ithaca, NY, 1979. 4 We must be careful here. When movable-type printing was first introduced, it was called artificial writing, because it seemed to be automating what scribes had been doing for previous centuries. Of course, printing only automates a small portion of the writing process. It is often more enlightening to view Al programs and robots as tools for enhancing human capabilities, rather than as independent, autonomous agents [Hill, 1989]. Artificial Intelligence Describe three different ways of combining speech recognition with a natural language un