erred models: one in
2 3
which Abnormal (Nixon)and Pacifist(Nixon)holdandoneinwhich Abnormal (Nixon)
2 3
and Pacifist(Nixon)hold. Thus,thecircumscriptivereasonerremainsproperly agnosticas
to whether Nixon was a pacifist. If we wish, in addition, to assert that religious beliefs take
PRIORITIZED precedenceoverpoliticalbeliefs,wecanuseaformalismcalledprioritizedcircumscription
CIRCUMSCRIPTION
togivepreference tomodelswhere Abnormal isminimized.
3
Defaultlogic is aformalism in which default rules can be written togenerate contin-
DEFAULTLOGIC
gent,nonmonotonic conclusions. Adefaultrulelookslikethis:
DEFAULTRULES
Bird(x) :Flies(x) Flies(x).
Thisrulemeansthatif Bird(x)istrue,andif Flies(x)isconsistentwiththeknowledgebase,
then Flies(x)maybeconcluded bydefault. Ingeneral, adefault rulehastheform
P :J ,...,J C
1 n
where P is called the prerequisite, C is the conclusion, and J are the justifications if any
i
one of them can be proven false, then the conclusion cannot be drawn. Any variable that
9 Fortheclosed-worldassumption,onemodelispreferredtoanotherifithasfewertrueatoms thatis,preferred
modelsareminimalmodels. Thereisanaturalconnectionbetweentheclosed-worldassumptionanddefinite-
clause KBs,becausethefixedpointreachedbyforwardchainingondefinite-clause KBsistheuniqueminimal
model.Seepage258formoreonthispoint.
460 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
appears in J or C must also appear in P. The Nixon-diamond example can be represented
i
indefault logicwithonefactandtwodefaultrules:
Republican(Nixon) Quaker(Nixon).
Republican(x) : Pacifist(x) Pacifist(x).
Quaker(x) :Pacifist(x) Pacifist(x).
To interpret what the default rules mean, we define the notion of an extension of a default
EXTENSION
theory to be a maximal set of consequences of the theory. That is, an extension S consists
of the original known facts and a set of conclusions from the default rules, such that no
additionalconclusions canbedrawnfrom S andthejustificationsofeverydefaultconclusion
in S areconsistentwith 