omain of the International Planning Competition (IPC) (see http: ipc.icaps-conference.org ) is as follows. There are some number of named balls in a room. A two-armed robot, with two grippers, has the task of picking up the balls, taking them to the other room, and dropping them there. Define the Gripper planning domain in PDDL. 3. The Driver Log domain is as follows (see http: planning.cis.strath.ac.uk competition domains. html). Trucks area to be used to transport packages between different locations. The packages have to be loaded from the location where they are and unloaded at the destination location. The trucks have to be driven around by drivers, who may have to walk to the truck and board the truck before they can drive it. Express this planning domain in PDDL. 4. The Rovers domain of the IPC is a simplified version of the task that NASA's Mars rovers face. There are several rovers. Each rover is equipped with devices to gather data, and different rovers may have different devices. The rovers can move from waypoint to waypoint, gather data and transmit it back to the lander. Transmission may be a oO oO limited to waypoints that are directly visible. Paths may be of different types, which can be navigated by some different rovers. Formulate the above domain in PDDL. . Complete the BSSP algorithm described in the chapter to incorporate a check for looping by keeping a CLOSED list. . In Section 7.4, the given trace of the example in Goal Stack Planning the algorithm chose to solve for on(B, C) first. What if the order had been reversed, and the algorithm had picked on(A, B) first? Would GSP still have found a solution? Generate the trace to find the answer. . Given the initial state on(P, T), onTable(O), onTable(T), AE, clear(P), clear(O) , show how goal stack planning with STRIPS operators will achieve the goal on(T, O), on(O, P) . You may choose any order for the subgoals. What is the plan found? Given the initial state on(A, B), on(B, D), onTable(D), on(C, 