veasmanagers oftheirowncadreofrobotworkers.
Peoplemighthavetoomuch(ortoolittle)leisuretime. Alvin Tofflerwrotein Future
Shock (1970), The work week has been cut by 50 percent since the turn of the century. It
is not out of the way to predict that it will be slashed in half again by 2000. Arthur C.
Clarke (1968b) wrote that people in 2001 might be faced with a future of utter boredom,
wherethemainproblem inlifeisdeciding whichofseveral hundred TVchannels toselect. Section26.3. The Ethicsand Risksof Developing Artificial Intelligence 1035
The only one of these predictions that has come close to panning out is the number of TV
channels. Instead, people working inknowledge-intensive industries have found themselves
partofanintegratedcomputerized systemthatoperates24hoursaday;tokeepup,theyhave
beenforcedtoworklongerhours. Inanindustrialeconomy,rewardsareroughlyproportional
to the time invested; working 10 more would tend to mean a 10 increase in income. In
an information economy marked by high-bandwidth communication and easy replication of
intellectualproperty(what Frankand Cook(1996)callthe Winner-Take-All Society ),there
isalargerewardforbeingslightlybetterthanthecompetition;working10 morecouldmean
a 100 increase in income. So there is increasing pressure on everyone to work harder. AI
increases the pace of technological innovation and thus contributes to this overall trend, but
AIalso holds the promise ofallowing ustotake some timeoffand let ourautomated agents
handlethingsforawhile. Tim Ferriss(2007)recommendsusingautomationandoutsourcing
toachieveafour-hour workweek.
Peoplemightlosetheirsenseofbeingunique. In Computer Powerand Human Rea-
son, Weizenbaum (1976), theauthorofthe ELIZA program, points outsome ofthe potential
threatsthat AIposestosociety. Oneof Weizenbaum sprincipalargumentsisthat AIresearch
makespossibletheideathathumansareautomata anideathatresultsinalossofautonomy
orevenofhumanity. Wenotethattheideahasbeenaroundmuchlongerthan AI,goingback
at least to