2-- 2 Overview of Artificial Ititelligence Chap. 1 1.1 WHAT IS Al? Whit is Al exactly? As a beginning we offer the followirtig definition: Al is a branch of computer science concerned with the study and creation of computer systems that exhibit some form of intelligence: systems that learn icss concepts and tasks. systems that can reason and druss useful conclusions about the world around us. systems that can understand a natural language or perceise and coniprchend a ',tsual scene, and systems that periorm other types of teats that require hurmian types of intelligence Like other definitions of complex topics, an understanding of Al requires an understanding of related terms, such as intelligence, knowledge reasoning thought. cognition, learning, and a number of computer-related terms. White e lack precise scientific definitions for many of these terms, we can give general definiti ons of them And, of course, one of the objectives of this text is to impart special meaning to allot the terms related to Al. including their operational meanings. Dictionaries define intelligence as the ability to acquire, understand and apply knowledge. or the' ability to exercise thought and reason. Of course, intelligence is more than this. It embodies all of the knowledge and feats, both conscious and unconscious, which we have acquired through study and experience: highly refined sight and sound perception: thought: imagination: the ability to converse, read, write, drive a car, memorize and recall facts, express and feel emotions: and much more. Intelligence is the integrated sum of those feats which gives us the ability to remember a face not seen for thirty or more years, or to build and send rockets to the moon. It is those capabilities which set Homo sapiens apart front forms of living things. And, as we shall see, the food for this intelligence is knowledge. Can we ever expect to build systems which exhibit these characteristics? The answer to this question is yes! Systems ha