rmance measure.
Let us emphasize again that this is not the only way to be rational we have already
seen a rational agent program for the vacuum world (Figure 2.8) that has no idea what its
utility function is but, likegoal-based agents, autility-based agent hasmanyadvantages in
termsofflexibilityandlearning. Furthermore,intwokinds ofcases,goalsareinadequatebut
autility-based agentcanstillmakerationaldecisions. First,whenthereareconflictinggoals,
only some of which can be achieved (for example, speed and safety), the utility function
specifies the appropriate tradeoff. Second, when there are several goals that the agent can
aim for, none of which can be achieved with certainty, utility provides a way in which the
likelihood ofsuccesscanbeweighedagainsttheimportance ofthegoals.
Partialobservabilityandstochasticityareubiquitousintherealworld,andso,therefore,
is decision making under uncertainty. Technically speaking, a rational utility-based agent
chooses the action that maximizes the expected utility of the action outcomes that is, the
EXPECTEDUTILITY
utility the agent expects to derive, on average, given the probabilities and utilities of each
6 Theword utility hererefersto thequalityofbeinguseful, nottotheelectriccompanyorwaterworks.
54 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
Agent
Environment
Sensors
State
What the world
How the world evolves is like now
What it will be like
What my actions do if I do action A
How happy I will be
Utility
in such a state
What action I
should do now
Actuators
Figure2.14 Amodel-based,utility-basedagent. Itusesamodeloftheworld,alongwith
autilityfunctionthatmeasuresitspreferencesamongstatesoftheworld.Thenitchoosesthe
actionthatleadstothebestexpectedutility,whereexpectedutilityiscomputedbyaveraging
overallpossibleoutcomestates,weightedbytheprobabilityoftheoutcome.
outcome. (Appendix Adefinesexpectation moreprecisely.) In Chapter16,weshowthatany
rational agent must behave as if it possesses a utility function whose expected value it tries
tomaximi