e and may bring world knowledge to the fore. This may be the discourse itself. If the words in an utterance are part of a dialogue between agents, then the expectation of a complete conceptualization may itself be waived. This happens typically in a question answer session. If you ask a child her name the answer often consists of just the name, rather than a full sentence. Likewise if ask a question like When did you get hurt? you often expect a one word answer like yesterday . The reason why we are able to deal effortlessly with such replies is because we do not expect them to form complete conceptualizations on their own. Rather we already have a partially filled conceptualization, and the answer supplies some of the missing pieces. The context of utterance may also be a source of expectations. Waiting outside a dentist s office we expect our name to be called and know that it is the summons into the chamber. Knowing that an election is taking place we have expectations of an announcement of the winners, of news of celebration, or of recriminations of unfairness. In the next chapter we look at how some of the knowledge about the world we have can be represented, and how it can come to fore to help us effectively deal with language and problems in an effective way. 13.8 Discussion As human beings we are accustomed to thinking in a language . The philosopher Wittgenstein said that The limits of my language mean the limits of my world. (Wittgenstein, 1921). The Sapir-Whorf hypothesis says that the grammatical categories a human uses in language strongly influence how the person understands the world (Whorf, 1956). The most well known example of this is in Whorf's study of the language of the Inuit people, who were thought to have numerous words for snow. Kenneth E. Iverson, the originator of the APL programming language, believed that the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis applied to computer languages. Noam Chomsky s theory of linguistics is built around the notion of a Univers