 are defined by a images The output of the segmentation process is a segmentation splitting process. two-dimensional array which identifies regions as commonly numbered pixel areas. This array is then transformed into a structured data network which contains descriptive elements for regions such as boundary segments, vertices, and the like. With this network, the system constructs a semantic description of the scene using model knowledge in the form of production rules Figure 14.30 illustrates the main processing steps carried out by the system. 320 Visual Image Understanding chap. 14 (a) (c) (b) - L1i nm (d) Figure 14.29 Models and stages of tntcrpretahbon in ACRONYM (Cowtes Y of Rodney A. Brooks) Sec. 14.6 Vision System Architectures 321 Input color image Preliminary segmentation Bottom-up process - Structured data network Plan generation - Plan Top-down process Production system Figure 14.30 Color scene region Scene description analyzer. In the preliminary segmentation stage, the image is segmented into coherent regions using region splitting methods based on color information. Multihistograms serve as cues for thresholding and region splitting. Color features are selected based on results from the Karhunen-Loeve transformation (Devijver and Kittler, 1982) which amounts to choosing those features having the greatest discriminating power (essentially the greatest variance). These segmented regions become the atomic dcmerits from which the structured data network is built.- Regions are characterized by their boundary NE.ti LS. Vertices. line segments, and holes. These basic descriptions are torined during the preliminary segmentation phase. Front these, other Features are derived including the area, mean color intensities red, green, blue), degree of texture. contour length. position of mass Center, number of holes, minimum bounding rectangle, distance from origin, and orientation. These, and region relationships are described in a data structure known as a patcher