 and Implementation of a Spell Checker for Assamese , Proceedings of the Language Engineering Conference, 2002, IEEE CS Press, pp.156-162, throws more insights into this aspect. F~ Natural Language Processing 331 Inquisitive readers could, after reading Chapter 24, go through the paper entitled An Artificial Immune System Based Approach for English Grammar Checking authored by Akshat Kumar and S. B. Nair, appearing in the book Artificial Immune Systems: Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on AIS, ICARIS 2007, Santos, Brazil, 2007, Eds. Leandro N. de Castro, Fernando J. Von Zuben, Helder Knidel, Springer, 2007, pp. 348-357, and ruminate on off-the-track approaches to natural language processing EXERCISES eeeererccter) SAMBO EA RDR LST -IN Sea NEE Hg OOM ETRE NO ADIT ENTREES) TUMEBDOMINS PES ROBOTEER TES OTR AH RE AN 1. Consider the sentence The old man s glasses were filled with sherry. What information is necessary to choose the correct meaning for the word glasses ? What information suggests the incorrect meaning? . For each of the following sentences, show a parse tree. For each of them, explain what knowledge, in addition to the grammar of English, is necessary to produce the correct parse. Expand the grammar of Fig. 15.6 as necessary to do this. John wanted to go to the movie with Sally. John wanted to go to the movie with Robert Redford. T heard the story listening to the radio. T heard the kids listening to the radio. All books and magazines that deal with controversial topics have been removed from the shelves. All books and magazines that come out quarterly have been removed from the shelves. In the following paragraph, show the antecedents for each of the pronouns. What knowledge is necessary to determine each? John went to the store to buy a shirt. The salesclerk asked him if he could help him. He said he wanted a blue shirt. The salesclerk found one and he tried it on. He paid for it and left. . Consider the following sentence: Put the red bio