ds then the problem would become a complete-information game problem, known in bridge parlance as a double-dummy problem. A double-dummy bridge problem is still a difficult one to solve, generating a tree of about 1021 nodes (Khemani and Ramakrishna, 1989). But one could tackle it by using a heuristic approach in which not all moves are generated at each step, but only a few likely ones. The key idea behind the Monte Carlo is to generate a number of different hands for the opponents, and solve them using a double-dummy approach, and select the strategy that works in most of the generated hands. Furthermore, one could use the inferences from bidding to generate the hands that are consistent with the bidding to improve the results. A second approach would be to treat the problem as a planning problem, and use as operators the high level combination plays that work under some conditions. An example is one of the simplest combination plays known as the finesse, which in one of its forms works as follows. One pattern of finesse is applicable when the declarer has the Queen and the Jack in one hand, and an Ace and a small card in the other hand as shown below, North: A 2 LHO RHO South: QJ South can plan for two tricks by using the following combination play. Start play from the South hand with the Queen. If the Left-Hand Opponent (LHO) plays the King then play the Ace from the North hand, and win the next trick with the Jack. If LHO plays the small card, play the 2 from the North hand and hope that the RHO does not have the King. If that is the case, the trick will be won with the Queen. The next trick is won by the Ace. In this manner, a finesse can be used to get two tricks in a situation when the second highest card is with the opponent. The finesse is a conditional plan that will succeed if the King is with the LHO and fail if the King is with the RHO. In the absence of any other inferences, the probability of the King being with the LHO is fifty percent, and therefor