ificantly bettertreatmentplan,andhowlikelythevarioustestresultsare.
INFORMATIONVALUE This section describes information value theory, which enables an agent to choose
THEORY
what information to acquire. We assume that, prior to selecting a real action represented
by the decision node, the agent can acquire the value of any of the potentially observable
chance variables in the model. Thus, information value theory involves a simplified form
of sequential decision making simplified because the observation actions affect only the
agent s belief state, not the external physical state. The value of any particular observation
mustderivefromthepotentialtoaffecttheagent seventualphysicalaction;andthispotential
canbeestimated directlyfromthedecision modelitself.
16.6.1 A simpleexample
Supposeanoilcompanyishopingtobuyoneofnindistinguishable blocksofocean-drilling
rights. Letusassumefurtherthatexactlyoneoftheblockscontainsoilworth C dollars,while
the others are worthless. The asking price of each block is C n dollars. If the company is
risk-neutral, thenitwillbeindifferent betweenbuyingablockandnotbuyingone.
Now suppose that a seismologist offers the company the results of a survey of block
number 3, which indicates definitively whether the block contains oil. How much should
the company be willing to pay for the information? The way to answer this question is to
examinewhatthecompanywoulddoifithadtheinformation: Withprobability 1 n,thesurveywillindicate oilinblock 3. Inthis case, thecompany
willbuyblock3for C ndollarsandmakeaprofitof C C n (n 1)C ndollars. Withprobability(n 1) n,thesurveywillshowthattheblockcontainsnooil,inwhich
case the company will buy a different block. Now the probability of finding oil in one
oftheotherblockschangesfrom1 nto1 (n 1),sothecompanymakesanexpected
profitof C (n 1) C n C n(n 1)dollars.
Nowwecancalculate theexpected profit,giventhesurveyinformation:
1 (n 1)C n 1 C C n.
n n n n(n 1)
Therefore, the company should be willing to pay the seismologis