nstance of Hitting event, and the rest of the sentences provide more information about this event. Observe that we have not stated explicitly that the hitting event has happened. The Event Calculus will address that in Section 13.5. Here we have assumed instead that the once we have an instance of the hitting act it means that the act actually happened. We can still add other statements that the event actually happened, or that the event was being planned, or even dreamt about. In FOL syntax we have been using the same statement can be expressed as, Instance(Hitting event, e31) 1 3, is a (type of) Hitting event Actor(e31, Azizi32) : The actor of e3, is Azizi Object(e3,, Anuun12) : The object of e3, is Anuun Date(e3,, Oct 12) : The date of e3, is October 12 Loc(e3,, Paris) : The location of e3, is Paris Instrument(e31, Stick) : The Instrument of e3, is Stick The fact that we have separated the different aspects of the event into independent statements means that the inference engine would have to search for every additional piece of information that is asked for. In the next chapter we will look at wa Ss of alleviating the problem of search by establishing explicit n kazir! com. conn dtidi etween related elements. Resource Description Framework (RDF) (Lassila and KaiRKie cl 8) is a representation scheme that has evolved to describe the data available on the World Wide Web . It is an XML application (i.e., its syntax is defined in Extensible Markup Language) customised for adding metadata in Web documents. Metadata simply means data about data. The basic idea is to annotate data available on the web with labels. Such labels, or metadata, can provide (semantic) details of the relations between entities (resources). An RDF statement is a triple, subject, property, value or subject, predicate, object where the subject is a resource that is being described, marked by the RDF word about , the property is a resource from some namespace, and the value is either a resource or