f the CPSC Bayesian network for medical diagnosis (Pradhan
etal., 1994). Behind thechess board ispart ofa Bayesian logic model fordetecting nuclear
explosions fromseismicsignals.
Credits: Stan Honda Getty (Kasparaov), Library of Congress (Bayes), NASA (Mars
rover), National Museum of Rome (Aristotle), Peter Norvig (book), Ian Parker (Berkeley
skyline), Shutterstock (Asimo,Chesspieces), Time Life Getty(Shakey,Turing).
Acknowledgments
Thisbookwouldnothavebeenpossible withoutthemanycontributors whosenamesdidnot
make it to the cover. Jitendra Malik and David Forsyth wrote Chapter 24 (computer vision)
and Sebastian Thrun wrote Chapter 25 (robotics). Vibhu Mittal wrote part of Chapter 22
(naturallanguage). Nick Hay,Mehran Sahami,and Ernest Daviswrotesomeoftheexercises.
Zoran Duric (George Mason), Thomas C. Henderson (Utah), Leon Reznik (RIT), Michael
Gourley (Central Oklahoma) and Ernest Davis (NYU) reviewed the manuscript and made
helpfulsuggestions. Wethank Ernie Davisinparticularforhistirelessabilitytoreadmultiple
drafts and help improve the book. Nick Hay whipped the bibliography into shape and on
deadline stayed up to 5:30 AM writing code to make the book better. Jon Barron formatted
and improved the diagrams in this edition, while Tim Huang, Mark Paskin, and Cynthia
Bruyns helped with diagrams and algorithms in previous editions. Ravi Mohan and Ciaran
O Reilly wrote and maintain the Java code examples on the Web site. John Canny wrote
theroboticschapterforthefirsteditionand Douglas Edwardsresearchedthehistoricalnotes.
Tracy Dunkelberger, Allison Michael,Scott Disanno, and Jane Bonnellat Pearsontriedtheir
best to keep us on schedule and made many helpful suggestions. Most helpful of all has
x Preface
been Julie Sussman,P.P.A.,whoreadeverychapterandprovidedextensiveimprovements. In
previous editionswehadproofreaders whowouldtelluswhen weleftoutacommaandsaid
whichwhenwemeantthat; Julietold uswhenweleftoutaminussignandsaidx whenwe
i
meantx . Foreverytypoorconfusing expl