cise 12.20). And we are forced to throw away the universal implication that all birds fly. Instead, we would like to have a mechanism by which, given a knowledge base, we can make the set of plausible inferences, with the caveat that if the knowledge base grows then some of the inferences may not hold. This implies that the set of inferences that we can make does not grow monotonically with what we know, and could in fact become smaller when we add more facts. This form of reasoning is called nonmonotonic reasoning, because the set of inferred sentences does not grow monotonically with the set of known facts. In the above example, if the only facts we had about Peppy were that it was a bird then it would be reasonable to infer that it could fly. Later, if we come to know that Peppy was a penguin, and we believed that penguins do not fly, we would no longer be justified in inferring that Peppy can fly, and would have to withdraw the belief. We look at some of the approaches that have been proposed by researchers, though none of them stands out (Brachman and Levesque, 2004). The approaches vary in the kind of assumptions they make and the manner in which they use them. 17.1.1 Closed World Assumption The simplest approach to dealing with incomplete knowledge is to make the assumption that the agent knows everything about the world, and anything that is not known or cannot be inferred from what is known is false. This is a kind of negation by failure, in which all known individuals in the domain, corresponding to constants in the language, only belong to categories they are known to belong to. In other words, this assumption minimizes the extensions or extent! of all primitive categories. Let us assume a domain of youngsters and some information about who are friends, with the knowledge that friends (usually) chat with each other. We assume the Friend relation is symmetric. Consider the following first order logic knowledge base, KB: Vx Vy (Priend(x,y) D FPriend(y,x)) V