 for the limitations of kinematic plans is to use a
separate mechanism, acontroller, forkeeping therobotontrack. Controllers aretechniques
CONTROLLER
for generating robot controls in real time using feedback from the environment, so as to
achieve a control objective. If the objective is to keep the robot on a preplanned path, it is
REFERENCE oftenreferredtoasareferencecontrollerandthepathiscalledareferencepath. Controllers
CONTROLLER
that optimize aglobal cost function are known as optimal controllers. Optimal policies for
REFERENCEPATH
OPTIMAL continuous MD Psare,ineffect,optimalcontrollers.
CONTROLLERS
On the surface, the problem of keeping a robot on a prespecified path appears to be
relatively straightforward. In practice, however, even this seemingly simple problem has its
pitfalls. Figure 25.22(a) illustrates what can go wrong; it shows the path of a robot that
attempts to follow a kinematic path. Whenever a deviation occurs whether due to noise or
toconstraints ontheforcestherobotcanapply therobotprovidesanopposingforcewhose
magnitude is proportional to this deviation. Intuitively, this might appear plausible, since
deviations should be compensated by a counterforce to keep the robot on track. However,
998 Chapter 25. Robotics
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 25.22 Robot arm control using (a) proportionalcontrol with gain factor 1.0, (b)
proportionalcontrolwith gain factor 0.1, and (c) PD (proportionalderivative)controlwith
gainfactors0.3fortheproportionalcomponentand0.8forthedifferentialcomponent.Inall
casestherobotarmtriestofollowthepathshowningray.
as Figure 25.22(a) illustrates, our controller causes the robot to vibrate rather violently. The
vibration is the result of a natural inertia of the robot arm: once driven back to its reference
positiontherobotthenovershoots,whichinducesasymmetricerrorwithoppositesign. Such
overshooting may continue along an entire trajectory, and the resulting robot motion is far
fromdesirable.
Before we can define a better controller, let u