retations. Now we address the problem
of completing the interpretation by adding context-dependent information about the current
situation. The most obvious need for pragmatic information is in resolving the meaning of
indexicals, which arephrases that referdirectly tothe current situation. Forexample, in the
INDEXICAL
sentence Iamin Bostontoday, both I and today areindexicals. Theword I wouldbe
represented bythefluent Speaker,anditwouldbeuptothehearertoresolvethemeaningof
the fluent that is not considered part of the grammar but rather an issue of pragmatics; of
usingthecontextofthecurrentsituation tointerpret fluents.
Another part of pragmatics is interpreting the speaker s intent. The speaker s action is
considered a speech act, and it is up to the hearer to decipher what type of action it is a
SPEECHACT
question, a statement, a promise, a warning, a command, and so on. A command such as go to22 implicitly refers tothe hearer. Sofar, ourgrammarfor S covers only declarative
sentences. We can easily extend it to cover commands. A command can be formed from
a VP, where the subject is implicitly the hearer. We need to distinguish commands from
statements, sowealtertherulesfor S toincludethetypeofspeechact:
S(Statement(Speaker,pred(obj))) NP(obj)VP(pred)
S(Command(Speaker,pred(Hearer))) VP(pred).
LONG-DISTANCE Long-distance dependencies: Questions introduce anew grammatical complexity. In
DEPENDENCIES Who did the agent tell you to give the gold to? the final word to should be parsed as PP to , where the denotes a gap or trace where an NP is missing; the missing NP
TRACE
is licensed by the first word of the sentence, who. A complex system of augmentations is
used to make sure that the missing NPs match up with the licensing words in just the right
way,andprohibitgapsinthewrongplaces. Forexample,youcan thaveagapinonebranch
of an NP conjunction: What did he play NP Dungeons and ? is ungrammatical. But
youcanhave thesamegapinboth branches ofa VP conjunction: Whatdidyou VP