ms with this approach. First, most people do not know these equations, yet they are perfectly capable of predicting what will happen in physical situations. Also, unlike equations, people do not need exact, numerical measures. They need only qualitative descriptions, such as the ones given at the beginning of this section. People seem to reason more abstractly than the equations would indicate. The goal of qualitative physics is to understand how to build and reason with abstract, numberless representations. One might object to qualitative physics on the grounds that computers are actually well-suited to model physical processes with numerical equations. After all, a computer s ability to solve simultaneous equations far outstrips that of a human. However. we cannot escape common sense so easily. Equations themselves say nothing about when they should be used: this is usually left up to a human physicist. The common-sense knowledge employed by the physicist is part of what we must model. While some sort of qualitative physics seems necessary automating the solution of physics problems, it is not sufficient by itself. The goal of qualitative physics is not to replace traditional physics but rather to provide a foundation for programs that can reason about the physical world. One such program might be a physics expert system. As a further illustration of the need for qualitative models, consider a scene in which a glass of water leans precariously against a book on top of a cluttered desk. When the book is moved, the glass begins to tip over. At present, no set of differential equations can accurately model exactly how the spilling water will flow across the desk. Even if such a model existed, it would be impossible to measure the initial conditions accurately enough to make an accurate prediction. Yet anyone in this situation can immediately visualize what is likely to happen and take rapid action to prevent it. 410 Artificial Intelligence NN 19.1.1 Representing Qual