r it might be a
parameterized additiveorlinearfunction oftheattribute values.
A simplified form is also used in many cases. The notation remains identical, but the
chancenodesdescribing theoutcomestateareomitted. Instead, theutilitynodeisconnected
directlytothecurrent-statenodesandthedecisionnode. Inthiscase,ratherthanrepresenting
autilityfunctiononoutcomestates,theutilitynoderepresentstheexpectedutilityassociated
with each action, as defined in Equation (16.1) on page 611; that is, the node is associated
ACTION-UTILITY with an action-utility function (also known as a Q-function in reinforcement learning, as
FUNCTION
described in Chapter 21). Figure 16.7 shows the action-utility representation of the airport
sitingproblem.
Noticethat,becausethe Noise,Deaths,and Cost chance nodesin Figure16.6referto
future states, they can neverhave theirvalues set asevidence variables. Thus, thesimplified
version that omits these nodes can be used whenever the more general form can be used.
Although the simplified form contains fewer nodes, the omission of an explicit description
of the outcome of the siting decision means that it is less flexible with respect to changes in
circumstances. Forexample,in Figure16.6,achange inaircraft noiselevelscanbereflected
by a change in the conditional probability table associated with the Noise node, whereas a
change in the weight accorded to noise pollution in the utility function can be reflected by
9 Thesenodesarealsocalledvaluenodesintheliterature.
628 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
Airport Site
Air Traffic
Litigation U
Construction
Figure16.7 Asimplifiedrepresentationoftheairport-sitingproblem. Chancenodescor-
respondingtooutcomestateshavebeenfactoredout.
a change in the utility table. In the action-utility diagram, Figure 16.7, on the other hand,
all such changes have to be reflected by changes to the action-utility table. Essentially, the
action-utility formulation isacompiledversionoftheoriginal formulation.
16.5.2 Evaluating decisio