e collection of segments of a language. These segments are selected and ordered based on some explicit linguistic criteria so that they may be used to depict a sample of that language. Corpora may be available in the form of a collection of raw text or in a more sophisticated annotated or marked-up fonm wherein information about the words is also included to ease the process of language processing. Several kinds of corpora exist. These include ones containing written or spoken language, new or old texts, texts from either one or different languages. Textual content could mean the content of a complete book or books, newspapers, magazines, web pages, journals, speeches, etc. The British National Corpus (BNC), for instance is said to have a collection of around a hundred million written and spoken language samples. Some corpora may contain texts on a particular domain of study or a dialect. Such corpora are called Sublanguage Corpora. Others may focus specifically to select areas like medicine, law, literature, novels, etc. Rather than just being a collection of raw text some corpora contain extra information regarding their content. The words are labeled with a linguistic tag that could mean the part of speech of the word or some other semantic category. Such corpora are said to be annotated. A Treebank is an annotated corpus that contains parse trees and other related syntactic information. The Penn Treebank made available by the University of Pennsylvania is a typical example of such a corpus. Naturally the creation of such annotation requires a lot of extra effort involving linguists. Some corpora contain a collection of texts which have been translated into one or several other languages. These corpora are referred to as parallel corpora and find their use in language processing applications that involve translation capabilities. They facilitate the translation of words, phrases and sentences from one language to another. Tagging of corpora is done part manually 