an especially important role in the design and implementation of these systems. Consequently, effective acquisition methods have become one of the principal challenges for the Al research community. 16.1 INTRODUCTION The goals in this branch of Al are the discovery and development of efficient, Cost effective methods of acquisition. Some important progress has recently been made in this area with the development of sophisticated editors and some impressive machine learning programs. But much work still remains before truly general purpose acquisition is possible. In this chapter, we consider general concepts related to acquisition and learning. We begin with a taxonomy of learning based on definitions of behavioral learning types, assess the difficulty in collecting and assimilating large quantities of well correlated knowledge, describe a general model for learning, and examine different performance measures related to the learning process. 357 358 General Concepts in Knowledge Acquisition Chap, 16 Definitions Knowledge acquisition is the process of adding new knowledge to a knowledge base and refining or otherwise improving knowledge that was previously acquired. Acquisition is usually associated with some purpose such as expanding the capabilities of a system or improving its performance at some specified task. Therefore, we will think of acquisition as goal oriented creation and refinement of knowledge. We take a broad view of the definition here and include autonomous acquisition, contrary to many workers in the field who regard acquisition solely as the process of knowledge elicitation from experts. Acquired knowledge may consist of facts, rules, concepts, procedures, heuristics, formulas, relationships, statistics, or other useful information. Sources of this knowledge may include one or more of the following. Experts in the domain of interest Textbooks Technical papers Databases Reports The environment We will consider machine learning as a specialized form 