that get isolated. The complexity measures described above are worst case complexities. They are also asymptotic complexities in which the role of constants does not show up in the comparison. It has been suggested that for some problems, AC-3 might in fact be a better algorithm on the average than AC-4 (Van Hentenryck, 1989). Furthermore, the performance of AC-3 is critically dependent on the order in which the variables are processed (Wallace and Freuder, 1992). It has been argued, with support from empirical evidence, that on the average AC-3 yields better performance than AC-4 for most problems (Wallace, 1993). 9.3 Scene Labelling One interesting problem where constraint propagation has been applied with remarkable effect is the scene labelling problem, also known as the Huffman-Clowes scene labelling problem (Clowes, 1971), (Huffman, 1971). The scene labelling problem is a classification problem in which the lines in an image have to be assigned a label describing them. Each edge in the diagram needs to be assigned a label from the set , -, , . Consider the following vertex that is part of a line drawing of a scene. Now given that there are four possible labels for each of the three edges, the edges meeting at the vertex can be labelled in 4 64 different ways. However, if the line diagram is a scene depicting physical objects then the labels of the three edges are constrained. On the one hand, they are constrained by what combinations of labels at vertices are possible for physical objects. On the other hand, the labels will have to be consistent with the vertices that the edges are connected to at the other end, because only one label can be applied for one edge. Let us assume that the line drawings are restricted to trihedral objects with plane surfaces in which exactly three edges, or planes, meet at a vertex. The meanings of the labels are as follows, : The edge is convex when the two faces enclose material within an angle less than 180 . : The edge is conc