rctation(courtesyof Peter Lucas).
and asking them for their diagnosis and recommended treatment plan. We then see how
wellthe system matches theirrecommendations. Ifitdoes poorly, wetryto isolate theparts
that are going wrong and fix them. It can be useful to run the system backward. Instead
of presenting the system with symptoms and asking for a diagnosis, we can present it with
a diagnosis such as heart failure, examine the predicted probability of symptoms such as
tachycardia, andcomparewiththemedicalliterature.
SENSITIVITY Perform sensitivity analysis. This important step checks whether the best decision is
ANALYSIS
sensitivetosmallchangesintheassignedprobabilities andutilitiesbysystematicallyvarying
those parameters and running the evaluation again. If small changes lead to significantly
different decisions, then it could be worthwhile to spend more resources to collect better
data. Ifallvariationsleadtothesamedecision, thentheagentwillhavemoreconfidencethat
itistherightdecision. Sensitivityanalysis isparticularly important, becauseoneofthemain
636 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
criticisms ofprobabilistic approaches toexpert systems is that it istoo difficult to assess the
numerical probabilities required. Sensitivity analysis oftenrevealsthatmanyofthenumbers
need be specified only very approximately. For example, we might be uncertain about the
conditional probability P(tachycardia dyspnea), but if the optimal decision is reasonably
robusttosmallvariations intheprobability, thenourignorance islessofaconcern.
16.8 SUMMARY
Thischaptershowshowtocombineutilitytheorywithprobabilitytoenableanagenttoselect
actionsthatwillmaximizeitsexpected performance. Probability theory describes what an agent should believe on the basis of evidence,
utilitytheorydescribeswhatanagentwants,anddecisiontheoryputsthetwotogether
todescribe whatanagentshoulddo. We can use decision theory to build a system that makes decisions by considering all
possible actions and choosing the one 