 circumscribe AB, since we would like it to apply only to those individuals to which it applies. In essence, what we want to do is to say something about what the predicate AB must be (since at this point we have no idea what it is; all we know is its name). To know what it is, we need to know for what values it is true. Even though we may know a few values for which it is true (if any individuals have been asserted to be abnormal in this way), there are many different predicates that would be consistent with what we know so far. Imagine this universe of possible binary predicates. We might ask, which of these predicates could be AB? We want to say that AB can only be one of the predicates that is true only for those objects that we know it must be true for. We can do this by adding a (second order) axiom that says that AB is the smallest predicate that is consistent with our existing knowledge base. In this simple example, circumscription yields the same result as does the CWA since there are no other assertions in the knowledge base with which a minimization of AB must be consistent. In both cases, the only models that are admitted are ones in which there are no individuals who are abnormal in aspect J. In other words, AB must be the predicate FALSE. But, now let s return to the example knowledge base A(Joe) \/ BUJoe) If we eircumscribe only A, then this assertion describes exactly those models in which A is true of no one and B is true of at least Joe. Similarly, if we circumscribe only B, then we will accept exactly those models in which B is true of no one and A is true of at least Joe. If we circumscribe A and B together, then we will admit only those models in which A is true of only Joe and B is true of no one or those in which B is true of only Joe and A is true of no one. Thus, unlike the CWA, circumscription allows us to describe the logical relationship between A and B. 7.3. IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES Although the logical frameworks that we have just discusse