rganized into levels which facilitate analysis and solution. Information from one level serves as input to a set ot knnns ledge sources. The sources modify the knowledge and place it on the same or dnticrcnt levels. - The control information is used by the control module to determine the focus of attention. This determines the next item to be processed. The focus of attention can be the choice of knowledge sources or the blackboard objects or both. If both, the control determines which sources to apply to which objects. Problem solving proceeds with a knowledge source making changes to the blackboard objects. Each source indicates the contribution it can make to the nc solution state. Using this information, the control module chooses a focus of attention. It the focus of attention is a knowledge source, a blackboard object is chosen as the context of its invocation. If the f OCUS of attention is a blackboard object, a knowledge source which can process that object is chosen. If the focus ol attention is both a source and an object, that source is executed within that context. Blackboard systems have been gaining some popularity recently. they hae been applied to a number of different application areas. One of the first applications was in the HEARSAY family of projects, which are speech understanding systems (Reddy et al.. 1976). More recently, systems have been developed to analyze complex scenes, and to model the human cognitive processes (Nh. 1986b). Analogical Reasoning Architectures Little work has been done in the area of analogical reasoning systems. Yet this is one of the most promising areas for general problem solving. We humans make extensive use of our previous experience in solving everyday problems. This is because new problems are frequently similar to previously encountered problems. Sec. 15.3 Nonpr Od UCti Ofl System Architectures Expert systems based on analogical architectures solve new problems like humans, by finding a similar problem solution 