global graphics object originally used in LOGO), a windshield wiper as desiribed above, a ship, and so on. Objects are characterized by attributes and by the way they behave when messages are Sent to them. All objects belong to some class. They are created by declaring them as instances of an existing class and instantiating instance variables. The class to which an object belongs can be determined by sending it the message 'class." Messages Actions are performed man OOS by sending messages to an object. This corresponds to a function or procedure call in other languages. The messages are formatted strings composed of three pans: a receiver object, a message selector, and a sequence of zero or more arguments. The format of a message is given as <object><selector><arg, er92. . The object identifies the receiver of the message. This field may contain an object item or another aessage which evaluates to an object. The selector is a procedure flame. It specifies what action is required from the object. The arguments are objects used by the receiver object to complete some desired task. Messages may also be given in place of an argument since a message always elicits an object as a response. When an object receives a valid message, it responds by taking appropriate actions (such as executing a procedure or sending messages to ether objects) and then returning a result. For example. the message 9 .- 5 causes the receiver object 9 to respond to the selector - by subtracting 5 from 9 and returning the object 4. There are three types of messages: unary, binary, and ke yword (n-ary). All three types parse from left to right, but parentheses may be used to determine t( order of interpretation. A unary message requires no arguments. For example. cad of the following are unary messages: 5 sign 10 factorial 'once upon a time' Size #la b c d) reversed 68 as Character 152 Object-Oriented Representations Chap. b In each of these examples, the first item in the message is the receive