associated text What is Artifice ficial intelligence? 13 srmastron Tm Re SEN ats De aag8doe ic ARRORERERSA MS acme patterns are used to try to find appropriate answers in the text. For example, if the template - Who did x y matches an input question, then the text pattern x y z is matched against the input text and the value of = is given as the answer to the question. Text The input text stored simply as a long character string. Question The current question also stored as a character string. The Algorithm To answer a question, do the following: 1. Compare each element of Question Patterns against the Question and use all those that match successfully to generate a set of text patterns. 2. Pass each of these patterns through a substitution process that generates alternative forms of verbs so that, for example, go in a question might match went in the text. This step generates a new, expanded set of text patterns. . Apply each of these text patterns to Text, and collect al! the resulting answers. + Roe with the set of answers just collected. iia The template What did x v matches this question and generates the text pattern Mary go shopping for z. After the pattern-substitution step, this pattern is expanded to a set of patterns including Mary goes shopping for z, and Mary went shopping for z. The latter pattern matches the input text; the program, using a convention that variables match the longest possible string up to a sentence delimiter (such as a period), assigns z the value, a new coat, which is given as the answer. Qz2: Unless the template set is very large, allowing for the insertion of the object of find between it and the modifying phrase that she liked, the insertion of the word really in the text, and the substitution of she for Mary, this question is hot answerable. If al] of these variations are accounted for and the question can be answered, then the response is a red one. Q3: Since no answer to this question is contained in the text, no answer will b