mmon patterns among them, and formulate descriptions or descrimination criteria consistent with the goals of the recognition process. This form of learning is known as clustering. It is the first step in any recognition process where discriminating features of objects are not known in advance. Learning through Clustering Clustering is the process of grouping or classifying objects on the basis of a dose association or shared characteristics. The objects can be physical or abstract entities, and the characteristics can be attribute values, relations among the objects, and combinations of both. For example, the objects might be streets, freeways, and other pathways connecting two points in a city, and the classifications., the pathways which provide fast or slow traversal between the points. At a more abstract level. the objects might be sonic concept such as the quality of the items purchased. The classifications in this case might be made on the basis of some subjective criteria. such as poor, average, or good. Clustering is essentially a discovery learning process in which similarity patterns are found among a group of objects. Discovery of the patterns is usually influenced by the environment or context and motivated by some goal or objective (even it only for economy in cognition). For example, finding short-cuts between two frequently visited points is. motivated by a desire to reduce the planning effort and transit time between the points. Likesise, developing a notion of quality is motivated by a desire to save time and money or to improve one's appearance. Given different objectives, the same set of objects would, in general, beclustered differently. If the objective given aboe for the streets, freeways, and the like were modified to include sale for bicycle riding, a different object classification would. in general, result. Finding the most meaningful cluster groupings among a set of unknown objects o, requires that similarity patterns be discovered in the 