, 1985; Copeland, 1993; Mc Corduck, 2004; Minsky, 2007). The Behavioral and
Brain Sciences, abbreviated BBS, is a major journal devoted to philosophical and scientific
debates about AI and neuroscience. Topics of ethics and responsibility in AI are covered in
thejournals AIand Society and Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Law.
Exercises 1043
EXERCISES
26.1 Gothrough Turing s listofalleged disabilities ofmachines, identifying whichhave
been achieved, which are achievable in principle by aprogram, andwhich are still problem-
aticbecausetheyrequire conscious mentalstates.
26.2 Findandanalyze anaccount inthepopular mediaofoneormore ofthearguments to
theeffectthat AIisimpossible.
26.3 In the brain replacement argument, it is important to be able to restore the subject s
brain to normal, such that its external behavior is as it would have been if the operation had
not taken place. Can the skeptic reasonably object that this would require updating those
neurophysiological properties of the neurons relating to conscious experience, as distinct
fromthoseinvolved inthefunctional behavioroftheneurons?
26.4 Suppose that a Prolog program containing many clauses about the rules of British
citizenship is compiled and run on an ordinary computer. Analyze the brain states of the
computerunderwideandnarrowcontent.
26.5 Alan Perlis(1982)wrote, Ayearspentinartificialintelligenceisenoughtomakeone
believe in God . Healso wrote, in a letter to Philip Davis, that one of the central dreams of
computer science is that through theperformance of computers and their programs wewill
remove all doubt that there is only a chemical distinction between the living and nonliving
world. To what extent does the progress made so far in artificial intelligence shed light on
theseissues? Supposethatatsomefuturedate,the AIendeavorhasbeencompletelysuccess-
ful;thatis,wehavebuildintelligent agentscapableofcarryingoutanyhumancognitivetask
athumanlevelsofability. Towhatextentwouldthatshedlightontheseissues