emetonymicobjectmareidentical: m,x (m x) Metonymy(m,x).
Forthe Chrysler example, a reasonable generalization is that an organization can be used to
standforaspokesperson ofthatorganization: m,x x Organizations Spokesperson(m,x) Metonymy(m,x).
Other metonymies include the author for the works (I read Shakespeare) or more generally
theproducer fortheproduct (Idrivea Honda)andthepartforthewhole(The Red Soxneed
a strong arm). Some examples of metonymy, such as The ham sandwich on Table 4 wants
anotherbeer, aremorenovelandareinterpreted withrespecttoasituation.
Ametaphor isanother figure ofspeech, inwhich a phrase withone literal meaning is
METAPHOR
used to suggest a different meaning by way of an analogy. Thus, metaphor can be seen as a
kindofmetonymywheretherelationisoneofsimilarity.
Disambiguation is the process of recovering the most probable intended meaning of
DISAMBIGUATION
an utterance. In one sense wealready have a framework for solving this problem: each rule
has a probability associated with it, so the probability of an interpretation is the product of
the probabilities of the rules that led to the interpretation. Unfortunately, the probabilities
reflect how common the phrases are in the corpus from which the grammar was learned,
and thus reflect general knowledge, not specific knowledge of the current situation. To do
disambiguation properly, weneedtocombinefourmodels:
1. Theworldmodel: thelikelihoodthatapropositionoccursintheworld. Givenwhatwe
know about the world, it is more likely that a speaker who says I m dead means I
aminbigtrouble ratherthan Mylifeended,andyet Icanstilltalk. 2. Thementalmodel: thelikelihood thatthespeakerformstheintention ofcommunicat-
ing a certain fact to the hearer. This approach combines models of what the speaker
believes, what the speaker believes the hearer believes, and so on. Forexample, when
a politician says, I am not a crook, the world model might assign a probability of
only 50 to the proposition that the politician is no