l, who would not call a welldressed cigar-smoking rabbit who can talk English and beat everyone at chess, intelligent? Then there are the higher order faculties that we associate with intelligence. One of them is creation, or even appreciation of fine art. Sometime in the mid-seventies of the last century, Harold Cohen created a program called AARON whose paintings have been much admired (McCorduck, 1990), (Cohen, 1995). Classical music has also been the forte of higher forms of intelligence. And yet a program called EMI (Experiments in Musical Intelligence) written by David Cope (1992; 1996; 2005) composed music in the style of over a hundred composers which seasoned listeners could not differentiate from the original composer's style.' Does that mean that if we could build a robot with arms and legs, teach it to run, drink lemonade, be courteous and speak English in addition to its abilities of manipulating very large numbers with ease, beating us at chess while painting a study in still life, composing an aria for an opera, diagnosing illnesses and prescribing medicines, and planning and cooking a dinner for two then we would have succeeded in creating artificial intelligence? No , comes the answer this time from a section of philosophers. The computer is only a symbol manipulator. It does not know what it is doing. It does not have a sense of being in this world. It does not know, for example, that it is adding money to someone s account even when it goes through a sequence of steps that results in doing so. It does not know that it is playing chess, or that it should win, or that there is chess, or that it is there. It is just programmed. All this has something to do with self awareness. The computer may be able to beat me at chess , they say, but it is who am intelligent, not it. Because know that am . Ironically, grappling with the question of human identity, Ren Descartes had said cogito ergo sum (Latin for I think, therefore am originally asserted by him in