tionorproofbycontradiction. Oneassumesa
REFUTATION
sentence tobefalseandshowsthatthisleadstoacontradiction withknownaxioms . This
CONTRADICTION
contradiction isexactlywhatismeantbysayingthatthesentence ( )isunsatisfiable.
7.5.1 Inference andproofs
Thissectioncoversinferencerulesthatcanbeappliedtoderiveaproof achainofconclu-
INFERENCERULES
sions that leads tothe desired goal. Thebest-known rule is called Modus Ponens(Latin for
PROOF
modethataffirms)andiswritten
MODUSPONENS , . The notation means that, whenever any sentences of the form and are given, then
thesentence canbeinferred. Forexample,if(Wumpus Ahead Wumpus Alive) Shoot
and(Wumpus Ahead Wumpus Alive)aregiven,then Shoot canbeinferred.
Anotherusefulinferenceruleis And-Elimination,whichsaysthat,fromaconjunction,
AND-ELIMINATION
anyoftheconjuncts canbeinferred: . Forexample,from (Wumpus Ahead Wumpus Alive),Wumpus Alive canbeinferred.
By considering the possible truth values of and , one can show easily that Modus
Ponens and And-Elimination are sound once and for all. These rules can then be used in
any particular instances where they apply, generating sound inferences without the need for
enumerating models.
Allofthelogicalequivalences in Figure7.11canbeusedasinferencerules. Forexam-
ple,theequivalence forbiconditional elimination yields thetwoinference rules ( ) ( )
and .
( ) ( ) Section7.5. Propositional Theorem Proving 251
Notall inference rules work inboth directions like this. Forexample, wecannot run Modus
Ponensintheoppositedirection toobtain and from .
Letusseehowtheseinferencerulesandequivalencescanbeusedinthewumpusworld.
We start with the knowledge base containing R through R and show how to prove P ,
1 5 1,2
thatis,thereisnopitin 1,2 . First,weapplybiconditional elimination to R toobtain
2
R : (B (P P )) ((P P ) B ).
6 1,1 1,2 2,1 1,2 2,1 1,1
Thenweapply And-Elimination to R toobtain
6
R : ((P P ) B ).
7 1,2 2,1 1,1
Logicalequivalence forcontrapositives gives
R : ( B (P P )).
8 1,1 1,2 2,1
Nowwecanappl