algorithms can solve anysolvable
problem, noneofthemcandosoefficiently. Informedsearchalgorithms, ontheotherhand,
candoquitewellgivensomeguidance onwheretolookforsolutions.
In this chapter, we limit ourselves to the simplest kind of task environment, for which
thesolutiontoaproblemisalwaysafixedsequenceofactions. Themoregeneralcase where
theagent sfutureactionsmayvarydepending onfuturepercepts is handledin Chapter4.
This chapter uses the concepts of asymptotic complexity (that is, O() notation) and
NP-completeness. Readersunfamiliarwiththeseconcepts shouldconsult Appendix A.
3.1 PROBLEM-SOLVING AGENTS
Intelligent agents are supposed to maximize their performance measure. As we mentioned
in Chapter2, achieving this issometimes simplified iftheagent canadopt agoal andaim at
satisfying it. Letusfirstlookatwhyandhowanagentmightdothis.
64
Section3.1. Problem-Solving Agents 65
Imagineanagentinthecityof Arad,Romania,enjoying atouringholiday. Theagent s
performance measure contains manyfactors: itwants toimprove itssuntan, improve its Ro-
manian,takeinthesights,enjoythenightlife (suchasitis),avoidhangovers, andsoon. The
decision problem is a complex one involving many tradeoffs and careful reading of guide-
books. Now,suppose theagenthasanonrefundable tickettoflyoutof Bucharest thefollow-
ing day. In that case, it makes sense for the agent to adopt the goal of getting to Bucharest.
Courses of action that don t reach Bucharest on timecan berejected without further consid-
eration and the agent s decision problem is greatly simplified. Goals help organize behavior
by limiting the objectives that the agent is trying to achieve and hence the actions it needs
to consider. Goal formulation, based on the current situation and the agent s performance
GOALFORMULATION
measure,isthefirststepinproblem solving.
We will consider a goal to be a set of world states exactly those states in which the
goal is satisfied. The agent s task is to find out how to act, now and in the future, so tha