rearetwolimitationsofgametheory. First,itdoesnotdealwellwithcontinuous
states and actions (although there have been some extensions to the continuous case; for
COURNOT example,thetheoryof Cournotcompetitionusesgametheorytosolveproblemswheretwo
COMPETITION
companies choose prices for their products from a continuous space). Second, game theory
assumes the gameis known. Partsof the gamemay be specified asunobservable tosome of
theplayers, butitmustbeknown whatparts areunobservable. Incases inwhichtheplayers
learn the unknown structure of the game over time, the model begins to break down. Let s
examineeachsourceofuncertainty, andwhethereachcanberepresented ingametheory.
Actions: There is no easy way to represent a game where the players have to discover
what actions are available. Consider the game between computer virus writers and security
experts. Partoftheproblem isanticipating whatactionthe viruswriterswilltrynext.
Strategies: Game theory is very good at representing the idea that the other players strategies are initially unknown as long as we assume all agents are rational. The theory
itself does not say whatto do when the other players are less than fully rational. The notion
BAYES NASH ofa Bayes Nashequilibriumpartiallyaddressesthispoint: itisanequilibrium withrespect
EQUILIBRIUM
toaplayer s priorprobability distribution overtheother players strategies in otherwords,
itexpresses aplayer s beliefsabouttheotherplayers likelystrategies.
Chance: Ifagamedependsontherollofadie,itiseasyenoughtomodelachancenode
withuniform distribution overtheoutcomes. Butwhatifitis possible that thedie isunfair?
Wecanrepresent thatwithanotherchance node, higherupinthetree,withtwobranches for die is fair and die is unfair, such that the corresponding nodes in each branch are in the
sameinformation set(thatis,theplayersdon tknowifthedieisfairornot). Andwhatifwe
suspect the other opponent does know? Thenweadd another chance node, with one branch
representing thecasewheretheopponent doe