ce, 2004), depicts how a device specific diagnosis system could be constructed using the three knowledge sources library of component behaviours, the structure information from CAD, and the general diagnosis algorithm. Library of component models Device structure from CAD system General diagnosis algorithm Device model Device specific diagnosis system l Figure 17.11 A generic approach to building model based diagnosis systems. 17.3.1 Component Models A physical device in operation receives one or more inputs and produces one or more outputs. Given a device, a fault is said to occur if the observed behaviour (or output) is not an expected one. The device itself is made up of a set of (active) components connected in a known way via a set of (passive) conduits. We define the task of diagnosis as follows. Given that a fault has occurred, the task is to identify the set of components that are broken (that is, not working as designed). This is also known as fault localization. Observe that we confine ourselves to searching for components being faulty. The conduits and terminals are assumed to be passive. This means that if a wire connecting two electronic components or a pipe in a hydraulic system is to be included in the purview of the diagnosis process then it too should be modelled as a component. The behaviour of the component could simply be to transmit voltage or fluid from one end to another, and a broken component would not do so. Observe also that we do not consider the possibility of the structure the choice of components and the way they are connected as being faulty. We assume that the design of the system is correct. However, this line of reasoning has been suggested for the task of redesign of products (see (Bakker et al., 1994), (Stumptner and Wotawa, 1998)). The idea here is to treat the design problem as a redesign problem, begin with a (faulty) design, and apply model based approaches to arrive a design to match the new specifications. Figure 17.12 show