de an example sentence for the input word. Together the three agents provide the user with antonyms, synonyms and an example sentence that uses the input word. The prime objective of discussing this is to emphasize the fact that one can build a Multi-Agent System (MAS) using Chimera. Agents could talk things over resolve mutually and bring back useful information. The distributed nature also allows the flexibility of computation being carried out elsewhere and also the reuse of code already built. If you inspect the three pieces of code you will observe that after the Chimera system is loaded, the handlers do the basic jobs of finding the antonyms, synonyms and example sentences. They of course post messages to the other agents to derive the information. It can be seen that first the user query is passed on to the ant which immediately provides the antonym of the word (provided of course the same exists within its database). It also sends the word to syn that in turn provides the synonym and passes on the word to sen. This searches for a sentence within its database which has the input word and sends it straight to ant thus completing a loop. Figure 25.1 depicts this flow of information. The striped arrows indicate the communication links established between the agents while the chequered ones depict the flow of information. Ensure that you issue the goals as per the schedule indicated in the last row of the Table 25.5 lest a connection is attempted before the other agent comes into being. Other Chimera predicates Some other useful predicates made available within the Chimera system include {a) agent_dict/2 This predicate takes in the link number to give the name of the agent on the link. | ?- agent(O,Agent). i t PROLOG - The Natural Language of Artificial Intelligence 521 Table 25.5 Three Chimera Agents ant, syn and sen ANTONYM AGENT (ANT) WIN-PROLOG instantiation#1 SYNONYM AGENT (SYN) WIN-PROLOG instantiation#2 SENTENCE AGENT 1 (SEN} WIN-PROLOG instantiution#s :-e