iving things. And, as we shall see, the food for this intelligence is knowledge. Can we ever expect to build systems which exhibit these characteristics? The answer to this question is yes! Systems have already been developed to pertorril many types of intelligent tasks, and expectations are high for near term deselopment of even more impressive systems. We now have systems which can learn from examples, from being told, from past related experiences, and through reasoning. We hase systems which can solve complex problems in mathematics, in scheduling many diverse tasks, in finding optimal system configurations, in planning complex strategies for the military and for business, in diagnosing medical diseases and other complex systems, to name a few. We have systems which can understand'' large parts of natural languages. We have systems which can see well enough to "recognize" objects from photographs. video cameras and other sensors. We have systems which can 'reason with incomplete and uncertain facts. Clearly, with these developments, much has been accomplished since the advent of the digital computer. In spite of these impressive achievements, we still have not been able to produce coordinated, autonomous systems which possess some of the basic abilities of a three-year-old child. These include the ability to recognize and remember numerous diverse objects in a scene, to learn new sounds and associate them with objects Sec. 1.2 The Importance of Al 3 and concepts, and to adapt readily to many diverse new situations. These are the challenges now facing researchers in Al. And they are not easy ones. They will require important breakthroughs before we can expect to equal the performance of our three-year old. To gain a better understanding of Al. it is also useful to know what Al is not. Al is not the study and creation of conventional computer systems. Even though one can argue that all programs exhibit some degree of intelligence, an Al program will go beyond this