sed on the situation the agent is in. When one does not have the resources time or data to find an optimal solution, it would be prudent to strive for a good solution that is feasible. The ability to judge the situation has to be combined with the wisdom of choosing appropriate short-term goals, and the ability to generate effective plans for them. Such plans may involve communication with other agents too, either for collaborative efforts or for adversarial actions. The enterprise of building intelligent systems must encompass all these activities, because an intelligent system has to be built and demonstrated to be believed in. However, in this book we have confined ourselves only to the inner issues, or as one might say the core issues underlying intelligent behaviour. If one were to listen to the experts even from an overwhelmingly physical sport like football, we find that what distinguishes the greats from the run-of-the-mill player is what goes on in the mind. Yes, the ability to run fast, control the ball and dispatch it accurately is a necessary condition for playing the game at the highest level; but to be counted with Pele and Messie and the other greats what is needed is the ability to think on the field. We began Chapter 2 with a simple problem on the football field what should the player with the ball do next? The answer, as many an armchair footballer would tell you, is to pass the ball to a fellow player who has a greater chance of shooting a goal. In this book we have tried to explore what should happen in the mind of an intelligent agent when the data from the external world percolates inside. We have explored different forms of reasoning, from search to logical reasoning to handling structured schema and deciphering language, and exploiting memory and resorting to probabilistic methods. All these methods are needed in the armoury of an intelligent agent. We cannot go so far as to claim that we have uncovered the nature of the mind, but we can say 