wasalsoaseriousproblem. Inresponse, he andothersat MI Tinventedtime
sharing. Also in 1958, Mc Carthy published a paper entitled Programs with Common Sense,
in which he described the Advice Taker, ahypothetical program that can be seen as the first
complete AI system. Like the Logic Theorist and Geometry Theorem Prover, Mc Carthy s
program was designed to use knowledge to search forsolutions to problems. But unlike the
others, it was to embody general knowledge of the world. For example, he showed how
somesimpleaxiomswouldenabletheprogram togenerate aplantodrivetotheairport. The
program wasalso designed toaccept new axioms inthe normal course ofoperation, thereby
allowing it to achieve competence in new areas without being reprogrammed. The Advice
Taker thus embodied the central principles of knowledge representation and reasoning: that
it is useful to have a formal, explicit representation of the world and its workings and to be
able to manipulate that representation with deductive processes. It is remarkable how much
ofthe1958paperremainsrelevanttoday.
1958alsomarkedtheyearthat Marvin Minskymovedto MIT.Hisinitialcollaboration
with Mc Carthydidnotlast,however. Mc Carthystressedrepresentation andreasoning infor-
mal logic, whereas Minsky was more interested in getting programs to work and eventually
developed an anti-logic outlook. In 1963, Mc Carthy started the AIlab at Stanford. Hisplan
to use logic to build the ultimate Advice Taker was advanced by J. A. Robinson s discov-
ery in 1965 of the resolution method (a complete theorem-proving algorithm for first-order
logic; see Chapter 9). Work at Stanford emphasized general-purpose methods for logical
reasoning. Applications of logic included Cordell Green s question-answering and planning
systems (Green, 1969b) and the Shakey robotics project at the Stanford Research Institute
(SRI). The latter project, discussed further in Chapter 25, was the first to demonstrate the
completeintegration oflogicalreasoning andphysica