ain source of structure in a sentence since they describe the subject and objects. In inflected languages like Latin, nouns generally have different ending forms for different cases. In English these distinctions are less pronounced and the forms remain more constant for different cases. Even so, they provide some constraints. English cases are the nominative (subject of the verb). possessive (showing possession or ownership). and objective (direct and indirect objects). Fillmore (1968. 1977) revived the notion of using case to extract the meanings of sentences. He extended the transformational grammars of Chornsky by focusing more on the semantic aspects of a sentence. In case gramniars, a sentence is defined as being composed of a proposition P. a tensele.ss set of relationships among verbs and noun phrases and a modality constituent M. composed of mood, tense, aspect. negation, and so on. Thus, a sentence can he represented as S .M + P where P in turn Consists of one or more distinct cases Cl, C2.....Ck, P *Cl+C2+. . .+Ck. The number of cases suggested by Fillmore were relatively few. For example, the original list contained only some six cases. They relate to the actions performed by agents, the location and direction of actions, and so on. For example, the case of an instigator of an action is the agenhive for agent), the case of an instrument or object used in an action is the instrumental, and the case of the object receiving the action or change is the objective. Thus, in sentences like "The soldier struck the suspect with the rifle butt" the soldier is the agentive case. the suspect the objective case, and the rifle butt the instrumental case. Other basic cases include dative (an animate entity affected by an action). factitive (the case of the object or of being that which results from an event), and locative (the case of location of the event).. Additional tases or substitutes for those given above have since been introduced, including beneficiary, source