s game against Anand. Many verbs from a natural language are in fact not conceptual actions, but represent causal connections resulting in state change. Schank called them state change verbs. Consider the statement Adora killed a cockroach . While linguistically killed is a verb, conceptually it does not create a mental picture of an action. How did she kill it? Perhaps she stamped upon it, or perhaps she took a broom and smashed it. Perhaps she sprayed an insecticide at it, or perhaps she spreagasene aaigon and the (poor?) creature happened to eat it? If we had said that the butcher killed the lamb we could have brought ou auntie Kpgwledge to fore (how can a program do that?) and imagined how the act would have been done. But if we look at the cockroach killing sentence itself, it does not specify how the act was done. Likewise consider the statement, Adora moved the television to the corner . This one sounds suspiciously like the act MOVE, though it is really a PTRANS. However, the statement does not say anything about a conceptual act. Again, perhaps she pushed the table on which the TV set was lying, or perhaps she asked the carpenter, or her sister, to move it, which means she actually did an MTRANS using the SPEAK act. In both the examples, we don t really know what Adora did, but we do know that she did something, as a result of which the stated change occurred. We should therefore model it as shown in Figure 13.12. Pp Pp Adora DO Adora DO It fh 7 Health ( -10) LOC (corner) cockroach cockroach p Health ( -10) p LOC(?) indefinite indefinite FIGURE 13.12 State change verbs from language are causal relations conceptually. The DO action is a kind of a variable action which may be interpreted as the statement 3 x CD-ACT(x) which says that it is some unspecified CD act. As it is getting apparent by now, language verbs get associated with compound CD structures. Another set of verbs, dealing with mental actions, also translate to causal relationships. These are word