 these modifications have in common is that they substitute, for the huge joint probability matrix that a pure Bayesian approach requires, a more structured representation of the facts that are relevant to a particular problem. They typically do this by combining probabilistic information with knowledge that is represented using one or more other representational mechanisms, such as rules or constraint networks. Comparing these approaches for use in a particular problem-solving program is not always straightforward, since they differ along several dimensions, for example: They provide different mechanisms for describing the ways in which propositions are not independent of each other. e They provide ditferent techniques for representing ignorance. e They differ substantially in the ease with which systems that use them can be built and in the computational complexity that the resulting systems exhibit. We have also presented fuzzy logic as an alternative for representing some kinds of uncertain knowledge. Although there remain many arguments about the relative overall merits of the Bayesian and the fuzzy approaches, there is some evidence that they may both be useful in capturing different kinds of information. As an example, consider the proposition John was pretty sure that Mary was scriously ill. Bayesian approaches naturally capture John s degree of certainty, while fuzzy techniques ran describe the degree of Mary s illness. . Throughout all of this discussion, it is important to keep in mind the fact that although we have been discussing techniques for representing knowledge, there is another perspective from which what we have really been doing is describing ways of representing lack of knowledge. In this sense, the techniques we have described in this chapter are fundamentally different from the ones we talked about earlier. For example, the truth values that we manipulate in a logical system characterize the formulas that we write; certainty measures, on the