n for Bias. Ifthecoincamefrom abank, then
seeing itcomeupheads threetimesrunning wouldhavealmost noeffectonourstrong prior
belief in its fairness; but if the coin comes from the magician s pocket, the same evidence
willleadtoastrongerposterior beliefthatthecoinisbiased towardheads. Thus,a Bayesian
approach expresses our ignorance in termsofhow ourbeliefs would change in theface of
futureinformation gathering.
14.7.3 Representing vagueness: Fuzzy sets andfuzzy logic
Fuzzy set theory is a means of specifying how well an object satisfies a vague description.
FUZZYSETTHEORY
(cid:2) (cid:2)(cid:2)
For example, consider the proposition Nate is tall. Is this true if Nate is 5 10 ? Most
people would hesitate to answer true or false, preferring to say, sort of. Note that this
isnot a question of uncertainty about theexternal world we aresure of Nate s height. The
issueisthatthelinguisticterm tall doesnotrefertoasharpdemarcationofobjectsintotwo
classes there are degrees of tallness. For this reason, fuzzy set theory is not a method for
uncertain reasoning atall. Rather, fuzzy settheory treats Tall asafuzzy predicate andsays
that the truth value of Tall(Nate) is a number between 0 and 1, rather than being just true
or false. The name fuzzy set derives from the interpretation of the predicate as implicitly
definingasetofitsmembers asetthatdoesnothavesharpboundaries.
Fuzzylogicisamethodforreasoning withlogicalexpressions describing membership
FUZZYLOGIC
in fuzzy sets. For example, the complex sentence Tall(Nate) Heavy(Nate) has a fuzzy
truth value that is a function of the truth values of its components. The standard rules for
evaluating thefuzzytruth, T,ofacomplexsentenceare
T(A B) min(T(A),T(B))
T(A B) max(T(A),T(B))
T( A) 1 T(A).
Fuzzy logic is therefore a truth-functional system a fact that causes serious difficulties.
Forexample, suppose that T(Tall(Nate)) 0.6and T(Heavy(Nate)) 0.4. Thenwehave
T(Tall(Nate) Heavy(Nate)) 0.4, which seems reasonable, but we also get the result