 derivable. There have been
attempts to define a form of limited rationality for agents; to say that agents believe those
assertions that can be derived with the application of no more than k reasoning steps, or no
morethansseconds ofcomputation. Theseattemptshavebeengenerally unsatisfactory.
12.5 REASONING SYSTEMS FOR CATEGORIES
Categoriesaretheprimarybuilding blocksoflarge-scale knowledgerepresentation schemes.
This section describes systems specially designed for organizing and reasoning with cate-
gories. Therearetwocloselyrelatedfamiliesofsystems: semanticnetworksprovidegraph-
ical aids for visualizing a knowledge base and efficient algorithms for inferring properties
454 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
of an object on the basis of its category membership; and description logics provide a for-
mal language for constructing and combining category definitions and efficient algorithms
fordeciding subsetandsupersetrelationships betweencategories.
12.5.1 Semantic networks
In1909,Charles S.Peirceproposedagraphicalnotationofnodesandedgescalledexistential
EXISTENTIAL graphs that he called the logic of the future. Thus began a long-running debate between
GRAPHS
advocates of logic and advocates of semantic networks. Unfortunately, the debate ob-
scured the fact that semantics networks at least those with well-defined semantics are a
form of logic. The notation that semantic networks provide for certain kinds of sentences
is often more convenient, but if we strip away the human interface issues, the underlying
concepts objects, relations, quantification, andsoon arethesame.
There are many variants of semantic networks, but all are capable of representing in-
dividual objects, categories of objects, and relations among objects. A typical graphical no-
tation displays object or category names in ovals or boxes, and connects them with labeled
links. Forexample, Figure 12.5 hasa Member Of link between Mary and Female Persons,
corresponding tothelogical assertion Mary Fem