redictability of these
other agents can introduce contingencies into the agent s problem-solving process, as dis-
cussedin Chapter4. Inthischapterwecovercompetitiveenvironments,inwhichtheagents goalsareinconflict,givingrisetoadversarial search problems often knownasgames.
GAME
Mathematicalgametheory,abranchofeconomics,viewsanymultiagentenvironment
as a game, provided that the impact of each agent on the others is significant, regardless
of whether the agents are cooperative or competitive.1 In AI, the most common games are
ofaratherspecialized kind whatgametheorists calldeterministic, turn-taking, two-player,
zero-sum games of perfect information (such as chess). In our terminology, this means
ZERO-SUMGAMES
PERFECT deterministic,fullyobservableenvironmentsinwhichtwoagentsactalternatelyandinwhich
INFORMATION
the utility values at the end of the game are always equal and opposite. Forexample, if one
playerwinsagameofchess, theotherplayernecessarily loses. Itisthisopposition between
theagents utilityfunctions thatmakesthesituation adversarial.
Games have engaged the intellectual faculties of humans sometimes to an alarming
degree for as long as civilization has existed. For AI researchers, the abstract nature of
games makes them an appealing subject for study. The state of a game is easy to represent,
andagentsareusuallyrestrictedtoasmallnumberofactionswhoseoutcomesaredefinedby
precise rules. Physicalgames,such ascroquet andicehockey, havemuchmorecomplicated
descriptions, a much larger range of possible actions, and rather imprecise rules defining
the legality of actions. With the exception of robot soccer, these physical games have not
attracted muchinterest inthe AIcommunity.
1 Environmentswithverymanyagentsareoftenviewedaseconomiesratherthangames.
161
162 Chapter 5. Adversarial Search
Games, unlike most of the toy problems studied in Chapter 3, are interesting because
they are too hard to solve. For example, chess has an average branching factor of about 35,
and gam