n the validity of the argum lace the sentences coded by the symbols P, Q, R, S, T, U, V with any natural language senter t will still hold. It is only the form of the argument that matters. That is why logic is known as formal lo Proofs f procedure is a syntactic process. It is a symbol manipulation procedure that is oblivious of the se think of it as a one person game in which there exists a set of tiles on a board, and the rules allow t ore. Each tile stands for a sentence. The game starts with a set of tiles for the premises, and ends senting the conclusion is placed on the board. think of the language of logic as the object language, then the rules of inference are expressed in . That is, the rules are outside the language, or are extra-logical. Each rule contains one nts, and one consequent. Each antecedent is a pattern that can match a sentence. The rule is apy ts antecedents has a matching sentence (in the existing set or on the board ). When a rule is ap described in the consequent is added to the set of sentences, or using the game metaphor, a tile ard. tence is provable if it can be produced by a sequence or rule applications on the knowledge base a is provable we write this as, WV KP mG, B ctive Syllogism (DS) arp Bay aDyY hetical Syllogism (HS) fill Infer av B Addition (A) From (a f) A (yD 9) and avy Infer Bvd Constructive Dilemma (CD) iivill ASN 4 Infer Simplification (S) From (aD fB)A(y and aB v 6 Infer AaVv-7y Destructive Dilemma .6 Some of the common rules of inference. 10st well known rule is called modus ponens (MP), a B OO B says that if there is a sentence a and a sentence a B then we can add the sentence B to the set (K d or a sound rule of inference connects true antecedents to true consequents. Then if one has a dat true statements and some valid rules of inferences that are applicable, one can, by a purely syntactic ing, produce new sentences that are guaranteed to be true. How does one decide that a rule of inf rule is sound whenever it is b