cognition, the idea being that when intelligent programs are developed, we will simply add sensors and effectors to them. But problems in perception and action are substantial in their own right and are being tackled by researchers in the field of robotics. In the past, robotics and AI have been largely independent endeavors, and they have developed different techniques to solve different problems. We attempt to characterize the field of robotics at the end of this chapter, but for now, we should note one key difference between AI programs and robots: While AI programs usually operate in Perception computer-simulated worlds, robots must operate in the physical , The world. As an example, consider making a move in chess. An Cognition Physical AI program can search millions of nodes in a game tree without World ever having to sense or touch anything in the real world. A complete chess-playing robot, on the other hand, must be capable of grasping pieces, visually interpreting board positions, and carrying on a host of other actions. The distinction between real and simulated worlds has several implications: Fig. 21.1 A Design for an Autonomous Robot e The input to an AI program is symbolic in form, e.g., an 8-puzzle configuration or a typed English sentence. The input to a robot is typically an analog signal, such as a two-dimensional video image or a speech waveform. 432 Artificial Intelligence phd URE NRA CEECTET CERAM SID Robots require special hardware for perceiving and affecting the world, while AI programs require only general-purpose computers. Robot sensors are inaccurate, and their effectors are limited in precision. There is always some degree of uncertainty about exactly where the robot is located, and where objects and obstacles stand in relation to it. Robot effectors are also limited in precision. e Many robots must react in real time. A robot fighter plane, for example, cannot afford to search optimally or to stop monitoring the world during a LISP garb