e preferences for the two restaurants have high weights. These are designed to make sure that one of them is chosen. It also means that the other one will still be a penalty. Notice that the penalty for not visiting a mall is comparatively much smaller. 10.7 Planning in the Real World The planning techniques we have studied so far focus solely on the task of finding a plan for a given goal. We assume that the planning domain and problem are expressed in a well defined language, designed to express the planning problem. The given problem describes the given world completely and states the goal, and the planning task is to find a plan for that goal. We make a closed world assumption that everything that needs to be known about the world is known, and what is not known is irrelevant. We assume that the world is static and does not change while we are planning. We also implicitly assume that the world does not change while the plan is being executed, except by the actions in the plan. We assume that the actions are effected perfectly in the world and the changes actually made are as described in the operators. The ability to synthesize and execute sequences of actions that would achieve some desired goal is an integral part of intelligent behaviour. An autonomous agent, for example a robotic machine, would have to incorporate the ability to plan, but it would also need to go much beyond that. Actions in the real world are not always deterministic and an agent will need to watch its step as it goes about acting in the real world. It will need to monitor its actions and ascertain that the world is indeed as it expected it to be at each stage. And if it not then it should be able to modify its plan or generate a new plan before proceeding further. For example, one may have a plan to draw money from the local bank ATM before proceeding for an outing, but the action may fail if the ATM has run out of cash and the agent may have to modify its plan or devise a new one. A goal,