location and adapt its price based on the other features, like the number of bedrooms. 15.3.2 Synthetic Reasoning In a synthetic task, CBR is used to construct a compound artifact like a design, a plan, a layout, or some other kind of a combination of elements. Adaptation could be of different kinds. It could mean a change in some attribute value, for example the beam width in the design of a house. It could mean substitution of one component with another, for example a metal grill with glass windows. It could also mean addition or deletion of elements in the artefact, thus changing the overall configuration, for example the number of wheels in a car design. If the relation between requirements and a configuration is explicit, one could employ some kind of search to modify the retrieved configuration to suit the requirement. One successful application that did this was the colour matching system FormTool developed by General Electric Plastic (Cheetham and Graf, 1997), (Cheetham, 2005). However, this is rarely the case, and it is more common to use a set of hand coded rules to transform or re-instantiate the configuration. An example of this is the system Wayland designed to help setup aluminium pressure, die-casting machines (Price and Pegler, 1995). This brings an element of domain specific knowledge into the problem solving task. The pioneering system CHEF developed by Hammod (1986, 1989) used knowledge represented in Thematic Organization Packets (TOPs) for adaptation (see also Chapter 14). TOPs embody specialized repair strategies for repairing plans (recipes) with specific kinds of failures. An interesting feature in CHEF is that it can run a simulation to detect flaws in a plan. For example, given a task to make a dish containing beef and broccoli, CHEF retrieves a recipe for beef and green beans. It first adapts this recipe by reinstantiation of the recipe with broccoli instead of beans. During this process, program critics also suggest that the broccoli be c