Anassumed-density filterassumesthattheposteriordistribution overstatesattimetbelongs
toaparticular finitelyparameterized family;iftheprojection andupdatestepstakeitoutside
this family, the distribution is projected back to give the best approximation within the fam-
FACTORED ily. For DB Ns, the Boyen Koller algorithm (Boyen et al., 1999) and the factored frontier
FRONTIER
algorithm (Murphy and Weiss, 2001) assume that the posterior distribution can be approxi-
mated well by a product of small factors. Variational techniques (see Chapter 14) have also
been developed fortemporal models. Ghahramani and Jordan (1997) discuss anapproxima-
tionalgorithm forthefactorial HMM,a DB Ninwhichtwoormoreindependently evolving
FACTORIALHMM
606 Chapter 15. Probabilistic Reasoning over Time
Markovchainsarelinkedbyasharedobservationstream. Jordanetal.(1998)coveranumber
ofotherapplications.
Data association for multitarget tracking was first described in a probabilistic setting
by Sittler (1964). The first practical algorithm for large-scale problems was the multiple
hypothesistracker or MH Talgorithm(Reid,1979). Manyimportantpapersarecollectedby
Bar-Shalom and Fortmann (1988) and Bar-Shalom (1992). The development of an MCMC
algorithm fordata association isdue to Pasula etal. (1999), whoapplied ittotraffic surveil-
lance problems. Ohetal. (2009) provide aformal analysis and extensive experimental com-
parisons toother methods. Schulz et al. (2003) describe adata association method based on
particle filtering. Ingemar Coxanalyzed thecomplexity ofdataassociation (Cox,1993; Cox
and Hingorani,1994)andbroughtthetopictotheattentionofthevisioncommunity. Healso
noted the applicability of the polynomial-time Hungarian algorithm to the problem of find-
ing most-likely assignments, which had long been considered an intractable problem in the
tracking community. The algorithm itself was published by Kuhn (1955), based on transla-
tions ofpapers published in1931 bytwo Hungarian mathematicians, De 