orm, the sentence is easier to
1,1 1,1
understand: itsaysthatiftheagentisin 1,1 andthereisabreeze,then 1,1 isbreezy.
In Horn form, the premise is called the body and the conclusion is called the head. A
BODY
sentence consisting of a single positive literal, such as L , is called a fact. It too can
HEAD 1,1
bewritteninimplication formas True L ,butitissimplertowritejust L .
FACT 1,1 1,1
Section7.5. Propositional Theorem Proving 257
CNF Sentence Clause
1 Clausen
Clause Literal
1 Literalm
Literal Symbol Symbol
Symbol P Q R ...
Horn Clause Form Definite Clause Form Goal Clause Form
Definite Clause Form (Symbol Symbol ) Symbol
1 l
Goal Clause Form (Symbol Symbol ) False
1 l
Figure7.14 Agrammarforconjunctivenormalform,Hornclauses,anddefiniteclauses.
Aclausesuchas A B C isstilladefiniteclausewhenitiswrittenas A B C,
butonlytheformerisconsideredthecanonicalformfordefiniteclauses. Onemoreclassis
thek-CN Fsentence,whichisa CN Fsentencewhereeachclausehasatmostkliterals.
2. Inferencewith Hornclausescanbedonethroughtheforward-chainingandbackward-
FORWARD-CHAINING
BACKWARD- chaining algorithms, which we explain next. Both of these algorithms are natural,
CHAINING
in that the inference steps are obvious and easy for humans to follow. This type of
inferenceisthebasisforlogicprogramming, whichisdiscussed in Chapter9.
3. Deciding entailment with Hornclauses can be done in timethat is linear inthe size of
theknowledge base apleasant surprise.
7.5.4 Forwardandbackward chaining
The forward-chaining algorithm PL-FC-ENTAILS?(KB,q) determines if a single proposi-
tion symbol q the query is entailed by a knowledge base of definite clauses. It begins
from knownfacts (positive literals) intheknowledge base. Ifallthepremises ofanimplica-
tion are known, then its conclusion is added to the set of known facts. For example, if L
1,1
and Breeze areknownand (L Breeze) B isintheknowledge base, then B can
1,1 1,1 1,1
beadded. Thisprocesscontinues untilthequery q isaddedoruntilnofurtherinferences can
