cessor analyzes the rest of the sentence looking for components that will fit into the empty slots of the verb structure. For example, if the stative form of want has been found, then the conceptual processor will look for a conceptualization that can be inserted into the structure. So, if the sentence being processed were cf D p> the store Mary = PTRANS -+ Mary ~ |_John wanted Mary to go to the store. the structure shown in Fig. 15.16 would be built. John <> pleased The conceptual processor examines possible interpretations Fig. 15.16 A CD Structure in a well-defined order. For example, if a phrase of the form with PP (recall that a PP is a picture producer) occurs, it could indicate any of the following relationships between the PP and the conceptualization of which it is a part: 1, Object of the instrumental case 2. Additional actor of the main ACT 3. Attribute of the PP just preceding it 4. Attribute of the actor of the conceptualization Suppose that the conceptual processor were attempting to interpret the prepositional phrase in the sentence John went to the park with the girl. First, the system s immediate memory would be checked to see if a park with a girl has been mentioned. If so, areference to that particular object is generated and the process terminates. Otherwise, the four possibilities outlined above are investigated in the order in which they are presented. Can the gir! be an instrument of the main ACT (PTRANS) of this sentence? The answer is no, because only MOVE and PROPEL can be instruments of a PTRANS and their objects must be either body parts or vehicles. Girl is neither of these. So we move on to consider the second possibility. In order for girl to be an additional] actor of the main ACT, it must be animate. It is. So this interpretation is chosen and the process terminates. If, however, the sentence had been John went to the park with the fountain. the process would not have stopped since a fountain is inanimate and cannot move. Then the th