ineofaknowledge-based agentprogram. Likeallouragents,
ittakesaperceptasinputandreturnsanaction. Theagentmaintainsaknowledgebase, KB,
BACKGROUND whichmayinitially containsomebackgroundknowledge.
KNOWLEDGE
Each time the agent program is called, it does three things. First, it TEL Ls the knowl-
edge base what it perceives. Second, it AS Ks the knowledge base what action it should
perform. In the process of answering this query, extensive reasoning may be done about
the current state of the world, about the outcomes of possible action sequences, and so on.
Third,theagentprogram TEL Lstheknowledgebasewhichactionwaschosen, andtheagent
executestheaction.
Thedetails oftherepresentation language arehidden insidethreefunctions thatimple-
menttheinterface between thesensors andactuators ononesideandthecorerepresentation
and reasoning system on the other. MAKE-PERCEPT-SENTENCE constructs a sentence as-
sertingthattheagentperceivedthegivenperceptatthegiventime. MAKE-ACTION-QUERY
constructs a sentence that asks what action should be done at the current time. Finally,
MAKE-ACTION-SENTENCE constructs a sentence asserting that the chosen action was ex-
ecuted. The details of the inference mechanisms are hidden inside TELL and ASK. Later
sections willrevealthesedetails.
Theagentin Figure7.1appearsquitesimilartotheagentswithinternalstatedescribed
in Chapter 2. Because of the definitions of TELL and ASK, however, the knowledge-based
agent is not an arbitrary program for calculating actions. It is amenable to a description at
236 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
function KB-AGENT(percept)returnsanaction
persistent: KB,aknowledgebase
t,acounter,initially0,indicatingtime
TELL(KB,MAKE-PERCEPT-SENTENCE(percept,t))
action ASK(KB,MAKE-ACTION-QUERY(t))
TELL(KB,MAKE-ACTION-SENTENCE(action,t))
t t 1
returnaction
Figure7.1 Agenericknowledge-basedagent.Givenapercept,theagentaddsthepercept
toitsknowledgebase,askstheknowledgebaseforthebestaction,andtellstheknowledge
basethatithasinfacttakenthataction.
the 