e discussed in Chapter 6 could be augmented to support nonmonotonic reasoning. We then presented three kinds of TMS systems, all of which provide a basis for implementing nonmonotonic reasoning. We have considered two dimensions along which TMS systems can vary: whether they automatically detect logical contradictions and whether they maintain single or multiple contexts. The following table summarizes this discussion: TMS Kinds single context multiplecontext nontogical JTMS ATMS logical LTMS ? 170 Artificial Intelligence SRE NTR NCES TEER a N As can be seen in this table, there is currently no TMS with logical contradictions and multiple contexts. These various TMS systems each have advantages and disadvantages with respect to each other. The major issues that distinguish JTMS and ATMS systems are: e The JTMS is often better when only a single solution is desired since it does not need to consider alternatives; the ATMS is usually more efficient if all solutions are eventually going to be needed. To create the context lattice, the ATMS performs a global! operation in which it considers all possible combinations of assumptions. As a result, either all assumptions must be known at the outset of problem solving or an expensive, recompilation process must occur whenever an assuniption is added. In the JTMS, on the other hand, the gradual addition, of new assumptions poses no problem, The JTMS may spend a lot of time switching contexts when backtracking is necessary. Context switching does not happen in the ATMS. Inan ATMS, inconsistent contexts disappear from consideration. If the initial problem description was overconstrained, then all nodes will end up with empty labels and there will be no problem-solving trace that can serve as a basis for relaxing one or more of the constraints. In a JTMS, on the other hand, the justification that is attached to a contradiction node provides exactly such a trace. The ATMS provides a natural way to answer questions of the form, In