sions may be chosen through the strength of positive versus negative evidence presented in the form of justifications or endorsements. The endorsement weights employed in such systems need-not be numeric. Some form of ordering or preference selection scheme must be used, however. For example, in a prototype system (named SOLOMON) developed by Paul Cohen (1985), endorsements in the form of domain and general heuristics are used to reason about uncertainties associated with a client's investment portfolio. In selecting inve,stments for clients, there are many sources of uncertainty to contend with. First, there is uncertainty related to the client's lifestyle' and financial Status as well as his or her objectives. Secondly, there are varying degrees of uncertainty related to all types of investments. Some important factors which influence an investor's status include age, preretirement income expected, net worth, income needs, retire ment programs, and tax bracket. Factors related to investments include corporate earnings, dividends, bond and money market yields, the direction of the market. and the rate of inflation, to name a few. Endorsements in the SOLOMON system are justifications or reasons for believing or disbelieving a proposition or an inference. They are provided by experts as heuristics in place of numeric probability estimates. They are expressed as rules about the properties and relationships of domain objects. For example, heuristics used to reason about the uncertainties related to a client's status might take the form of rules such as IF: Client income need is high and net worth is medium to high. THEN: Risk-tolerance level is medium. IF: Client tax bracket is high and risk-tolerance level is tow. THEN: Tax-exempt mutual-funds are indicated. IF: Client age is high and income needs are high and retirement income is medium, Sec. 6.7 Summary 123 THEN: Risk-tolerance is low. IF: Two positive endorsements are medium or high and one negative endorsement is 