nce, and by the mid-nineties were of world champiomship calibre. In 1996, IBM s Deep Blue (Campbell et al., 2002; Hsu, 2004) did achieve the feat of beating world champion Garry Kasparov, and in the following year beat him 3.5-2.5 in a six match series. But no one has yet bestowed the quality of intelligence? upon computers because of that! Apart from the fascination that humans naturally have for games, they are very good as platforms for experimentation. Games provide a well defined environment in which states are intrinsically discrete. This means that one does not have to worry about processing input or effecting output in a complex environment, and can focus entirely on the decision making strategy. One can circumvent perception and action in the real world; problems that one would have to address if one were building a robot to play golf or tennis. Moreover, absolutely nothing is lost in abstraction. Furthermore, in games, the rules are well defined and success or failure can be measured easily. Good programs will beat inferior programs or humans in the game. Moreover, as we will see in this chapter, in spite of the simplicity of the domain, they provide us with problems that are hard to solve. Game playing is also interesting because it allows us to reason about multi-agent activity. The problem-solving activity studied in the preceding chapters is characterized by the fact that only a single agent is involved. Single agent situations do occur in the real world. For example, organizations can be seen as agents pursuing their goals in isolation. They could be in industrial organizations planning their design and manufacturing of products, or they could be government organizations planning infrastructure, or sending a man to the moon, or a rover to Mars. Or an individual may be planning a meal, or building a house. Many real world situations, however, have multiple agents involved. In such situations, the problem-solving agents have to consider the actions of t