dexterous animal close(X,V) X is close to V 72 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 % get-on(X.V) X can get on V % under(X.V) X is under V % tall(X) X is tall % in-room(X) X is in the room % can-move(X.Y.Z) X can move V near Z % can-ctumb(X.Y)} X can climb onto V % Axioms: in-room(bonanas). in-room(chair). in-roommonkey). dextarous(monkey). tall(chair). can.move(monkey, chair, bananas). can-climb(monkey, their). can-reach(X.Y) dexterous(X}, dose(X.Y). close(X,Z) get-on(XX). under(Y.Z), tall(y). get-on(X.Y) can-ctimb(X,Y). Under V,Z) :- in-room(X), in-room(Y). in-room(Z). can-move(X.V,Z)., Sec. 4.8 Nondeductive Inference Methods This completes the data base of facts and rules required. Now we can pose various queries to our theorem proving system. I?- can-reach(X,Y). X = monkey. V = bananas ?- can-reach(X,bananas). X monkey I 7can-reach(monkey.V). V = bananas ?- can-reach(monkey,bananas). yes 7can-reach(Iion,bananas). no I?- can-reach(monkey,apple). no 4.8 NONDEDUCT1VE INFERENCE METHODS In this section we consider three nondeductive forms of inferencing. These are not valid forms of inferencing, but they are nevertheless very important. We use all three methods often in every day activities where we draw conclusions and make decisions. The three methods we consider here are abduction, induction, and analogical inference. Abductive Inference Abductive inference is based on the use of known causal knowledge to explain or justify a (possibly invalid) conclusion. Given the truth of proposition Q and the implication P -b Q, conclude P. For example, people who have had too much to drink tend to stagger when they walk. Therefore, it is not unreasonable to conclude that a person who is staggering is drunk even though this may be an incorrect 74 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 conclusion. People may stagger when they walk for other reasons, including dizziness from twirling in circles or from some physical problem. We may represent abductive inference with the following, whe