ge of reasoning with a complete and deterministic model of the world. This is especially true in a dynamic world which is changing all the time. Uncertainty appears in different forms. The simplest form of uncertainty is the lack of complete information about what is true in the domain. This kind of uncertainty abounds in the real world. Generals have to fight battles without the benefit of knowledge of the strength and weaponry of the enemy. In older times, their battlefields were more like chessboards. Over the last hundred years or so, they have known less and less about the adversary, and more recently not even knowing who the enemy is. The reason why we hop from shop to shop, or portal to portal, is to find out who is selling what product at what price. Much of our everyday activity is oriented towards gathering information. Knowing facts is of considerable value, as it allows us to make decisions in a more rational manner. Our knowledge of the world around us is never complete though, and we are often compelled to arrive at conclusions in the face of incomplete and uncertain knowledge. Another reason why we have to often reason with uncertain knowledge is that our knowledge of relations between categories is uncertain. This may be because of our penchant to generalize and express relations that are generally true, whereas they may not be universally true. For example, the general statement birds can fly . We will look at reasoning with such relations in the section on Default Reasoning. The other reason is that often relations between categories are directional in nature because there is a causal connection between them. For example, if one has malaria then one will also have fever. However, the need for reasoning often comes in asking about the converse relation. Given that one has fever, one may want to find out whether one has malaria or some other affliction. We will explore such connections in the section on Abductive Reasoning. Often actions in the real 