ingresult:
Given three noncollinear points m , m , and m in the model, and their scaled
1 2 3
orthographic projections p , p , and p on the image plane, there exist exactly
1 2 3
twotransformationsfromthethree-dimensionalmodelcoordinateframetoatwo-
dimensional imagecoordinate frame.
Thesetransformationsarerelatedbyareflectionaroundthe imageplaneandcanbecomputed
by asimple closed-form solution. If wecould identify the corresponding model features for
threefeatures intheimage,wecouldcompute Q,theposeoftheobject.
Letusspecifypositionandorientationinmathematicalterms. Thepositionofapoint P
inthesceneischaracterizedbythreenumbers,the (X,Y,Z)coordinatesof P inacoordinate
frame with its origin at the pinhole and the Z-axis along the optical axis (Figure 24.2 on
page 931). What we have available is the perspective projection (x,y) of the point in the
image. This specifies the ray from the pinhole along which P lies; what we do not know is
thedistance. Theterm orientation couldbeusedintwosenses:
1. The orientation of the object as a whole. This can be specified in terms of a three-
dimensional rotationrelating itscoordinate frametothat ofthecamera.
Section24.5. Object Recognition from Structural Information 957
2. Theorientation of thesurface oftheobject at P. Thiscan be specified by anormal
vector,n whichisavectorspecifyingthedirectionthatisperpendiculartothesurface.
Often weexpress the surface orientation using the variables slant and tilt. Slant is the
SLANT
anglebetweenthe Z-axisandn. Tiltistheanglebetweenthe X-axisandtheprojection
TILT
ofnontheimageplane.
When the camera moves relative to an object, both the object s distance and its orientation
change. What is preserved is the shape of the object. If the object is a cube, that fact is
SHAPE
notchanged whentheobjectmoves. Geometershavebeenattempting toformalizeshapefor
centuries,thebasicconceptbeingthatshapeiswhatremainsunchangedundersomegroupof
transformations for example,combinations ofrotations andtranslations. Thedi