m using modern logic.
Ross Quillian (1961), driven by an interest in human memory and language processing, ini-
tiated workon semantic networks within AI.Aninfluential paperby Marvin Minsky (1975)
presented a version of semantic networks called frames; a frame was a representation of
an object or category, with attributes and relations to other objects or categories. The ques-
tionofsemanticsarosequiteacutely withrespectto Quillian ssemanticnetworks (andthose
of others who followed his approach), with their ubiquitous and very vague IS-A links Woods s(1975)famousarticle What s Ina Link? drewtheattentionof AIresearcherstothe
need forprecise semantics in knowledge representation formalisms. Brachman (1979) elab-
orated on this point and proposed solutions. Patrick Hayes s (1979) The Logic of Frames cut even deeper, claiming that Most of frames is just a new syntax for parts of first-order
logic. Drew Mc Dermott s (1978b) Tarskian Semantics, or, No Notation without Denota-
tion! argued that themodel-theoretic approach tosemantics used infirst-order logicshould
be applied to all knowledge representation formalisms. This remains a controversial idea;
notably, Mc Dermott himself has reversed his position in A Critique of Pure Reason (Mc-
Dermott, 1987). Selman and Levesque (1993) discuss the complexity of inheritance with
exceptions, showingthatinmostformulations itis NP-complete.
The development of description logics is the most recent stage in a long line of re-
search aimed at finding useful subsets of first-order logic for which inference is computa-
tionally tractable. Hector Levesque and Ron Brachman (1987) showed that certain logical
constructs notably, certain uses of disjunction and negation were primarily responsible
for the intractability of logical inference. Building on the KL-ONE system (Schmolze and
Lipkis, 1983), several researchers developed systems that incorporate theoretical complex-
ity analysis, most notably KRYPTON (Brachman et al., 1983) and Classi