Friend(shubagata, subun), Isolated (jennifer) Unlike closed world reasoning, we do not add any statements to the knowledge base, but we can still characterize the set of sentences that follow from the assumption that the interpretation or extent of the solated predicate is minimized. However, we are now beyond the realm of first order logic, since we need to talk about the extensions of predicates to be minimal. One way to express this process of minimization is to resort to second order logic and say that the predicate in question cannot be replaced with an equivalent predicate with smaller extent, without falsifying the given knowledge base. Let us say that the predicate we want to circumscribe is P. The circumscription of a formula (or knowledge base) with respect to the predicate P written as Circ ; P can be defined as follows (Lifschitz, 1994), Cire ; P A 3Q ( (Q) a (0 P)) Here, 0(Q) is the formula with all occurrences of P replaced by Q. The ordering between predicates is defined as follows: 1. (QP) if Vx (Q(x) D P(x) 2. (Q P) if V x (Q(x) P(x)) 3. (Q P)) if (Qs P) and (Q P) This says that the interpretation or extension of Q is strictly contained in the extension of P. The above definition can be extended when predicates P and Q have arity greater than one. The definition can be read as follows. The circumscription of with respect to the predicate P is when the extension of the predicate P is as small as possible. This is ensured by the fact that P is chosen such that there is no smaller predicate Q which makes (Q) true. In our example, P and Q are variations of the solated predicate, the one we seek to minimize the extent of. They differ on which individuals they are true for. Let us say as an example that l(Pisoiateg) Jennifer, Subun . Now there exists a Qisojateq Which is true only for x Jennifer, and satisfies the ordering condition 3 in the definition of circumscription. That is, Qisolated Pisolatea- Further, the KB3 is true for Qysolateg. Thus, this ver