ptatthe Move schemais
Action(Move(b,x,y),
PRECOND:On(b,x) Clear(b) Clear(y),
EFFECT:On(b,y) Clear(x) On(b,x) Clear(y)).
Unfortunately, thisdoesnotmaintain Clear properly when xory isthetable. Whenxisthe
Table, this action has the effect Clear(Table), but the table should not become clear; and
wheny Table,ithastheprecondition Clear(Table),butthetabledoesnothavetobeclear
372 Chapter 10. Classical Planning
for us to move a block onto it. To fix this, we do two things. First, we introduce another
actiontomoveablockbfromxtothetable:
Action(Move To Table(b,x),
PRECOND:On(b,x) Clear(b),
EFFECT:On(b,Table) Clear(x) On(b,x)).
Second, we take the interpretation of Clear(x) to be there is a clear space on x to hold a
block. Underthisinterpretation, Clear(Table)willalwaysbetrue. Theonlyproblemisthat
nothing prevents the planner from using Move(b,x,Table) instead of Move To Table(b,x).
Wecouldlivewiththisproblem itwillleadtoalarger-than-necessary searchspace,butwill
notleadtoincorrectanswers orwecouldintroducethepredicate Block andadd Block(b) Block(y)totheprecondition of Move.
10.1.4 The complexityofclassicalplanning
In this subsection we consider the theoretical complexity of planning and distinguish two
decision problems. Plan SAT is the question of whether there exists any plan that solves a
PLANSAT
planning problem. Bounded Plan SAT asks whether there is a solution of length k or less;
BOUNDEDPLANSAT
thiscanbeusedtofindanoptimalplan.
Thefirstresult isthat bothdecision problems aredecidable forclassical planning. The
prooffollowsfromthefactthatthenumberofstatesisfinite. Butifweaddfunctionsymbols
to the language, then the number of states becomes infinite, and Plan SAT becomes only
semidecidable: analgorithmexiststhatwillterminatewiththecorrectanswerforanysolvable
problem, but may not terminate on unsolvable problems. The Bounded Plan SAT problem
remains decidable even in the presence of function symbols. For proofs of the assertions in
thissection, see Ghallabetal.(2004).
Bo