ABCDE has width 3, while the ordering EDCBA has width 1. The width of a given graph is the minimum of the widths of all its orderings. A related property is called induced width. For a given graph, the induced width is the width of the induced graph. The induced graph, for a given ordering, is the graph produced by connecting all the parents of every node to each other. It turns out that the induced width is an indicator of how much consistency enforcement is needed to have backtrack free search. Specifically, if the induced width of a graph is (i 1) for an ordering, then i-consistency is needed to make search on that ordering backtrack free. What is more, given that we have a fixed order of selecting variables, we only need to ensure that any value we pick is consistent only with later variables. The later variables do not have a consistency requirement with respect to the earlier variables, which have already been assigned values. Thus consistency needs to be enforced only in one direction. Clearly, it is profitable to find an ordering that has the minimum induced width. We look at some algorithms for arriving at this ordering a little later in this chapter. First, we look at the algorithms for directional consistency enforcement for a given ordering. We begin by looking at the algorithm Directional Arc Consistency (DAC). 9.5.1 Directional Arc Consistency Given an order (x1, Xo, ..., Xp) in which the variables of a CSP will be picked for assignment, directional arc consistency specifies that for every value a that one picks for a variable x,, for every variable x, such that j k that is related to xj, there exists a value b in its domain such that a, b Rx. If this is not the case, the algorithm for enforcement removes the value a from the domain D; of x;. If a value is removed from the domain of a given variable x; then it can only affect arc consistency for a variable x; if i j. Therefore, if we enforce arc consistency from the last variable to the first, only one