t
ACTIONLIST
statingwhichactionsmustormustnotbeexecutedconcurrently. Forexample,the Hit action
couldbedescribed asfollows:
Action(Hit(a,Ball),
CONCURRENT:b(cid:7) a Hit(b,Ball)
PRECOND:Approaching(Ball,loc) At(a,loc)
EFFECT:Returned(Ball)).
In other words, the Hit action has its stated effect only if no other Hit action by another
agent occurs at the same time. (In the SATPLAN approach, this would be handled by a
partial action exclusion axiom.) Forsome actions, the desired effect is achieved only when
anotheractionoccursconcurrently. Forexample,twoagentsareneededtocarryacoolerfull
ofbeverages tothetenniscourt:
Action(Carry(a,cooler,here,there),
CONCURRENT:b (cid:7) a Carry(b,cooler,here,there)
PRECOND:At(a,here) At(cooler,here) Cooler(cooler)
EFFECT:At(a,there) At(cooler,there) At(a,here) At(cooler,here)).
With these kinds of action schemas, any of the planning algorithms described in Chapter 10
canbeadaptedwithonlyminormodificationstogeneratemultiactorplans. Totheextentthat
thecouplingamongsubplansisloose meaning thatconcurrency constraints comeintoplay
only rarely during plan search one would expect the various heuristics derived for single-
agent planning to also be effective in the multiactor context. Wecould extend this approach
withtherefinementsofthelasttwochapters HT Ns,partialobservability, conditionals, exe-
cutionmonitoring, andreplanning but thatisbeyondthescopeofthisbook.
11.4.2 Planning withmultipleagents: Cooperationand coordination
Now let us consider the true multiagent setting in which each agent makes its own plan. To
start with, let us assume that the goals and knowledge base are shared. One might think
that this reduces to the multibody case each agent simply computes the joint solution and
executes its own part of that solution. Alas, the the in the joint solution is misleading.
Forourdoublesteam,morethanonejointsolutionexists:
PLAN 2:
A: Go(A,Left Net),No Op(A) B : Go(B,Right Baseline),Hit(B,Ball) .
Section11.4. Multiagent Planning 429
Ifboth