identify a good design for driving in general. For this
46 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
ENVIRONMENT reason, the code repository also includes an environment generator for each environment
GENERATOR
classthatselectsparticularenvironments (withcertainlikelihoods) inwhichtoruntheagent.
Forexample,thevacuumenvironmentgeneratorinitializes thedirtpatternandagentlocation
randomly. We are then interested in the agent s average performance over the environment
class. A rational agent for a given environment class maximizes this average performance.
Exercises 2.8 to 2.13 take you through the process of developing an environment class and
evaluating variousagentstherein.
2.4 THE STRUCTURE OF AGENTS
Sofarwehavetalkedaboutagentsbydescribing behavior theactionthatisperformedafter
any given sequence ofpercepts. Nowwemust bite the bullet and talk about how theinsides
work. The job of AI is to design an agent program that implements the agent function AGENTPROGRAM
the mapping from percepts to actions. We assume this program will run on some sort of
computing devicewithphysicalsensorsandactuators we callthisthearchitecture:
ARCHITECTURE
agent architecture program .
Obviously,theprogramwechoosehastobeonethatisappropriateforthearchitecture. Ifthe
program isgoing torecommend actions like Walk,thearchitecture hadbetterhave legs. The
architecture might be just an ordinary PC, or it might be a robotic car with several onboard
computers, cameras, and other sensors. In general, the architecture makes the percepts from
thesensorsavailabletotheprogram,runstheprogram,andfeedstheprogram sactionchoices
to the actuators asthey are generated. Most ofthis book is about designing agent programs,
although Chapters24and25dealdirectly withthesensorsandactuators.
2.4.1 Agentprograms
The agent programs that we design in this book all have the same skeleton: they take the
current percept as input from the sensors and return an action to the actuators.4 Notice the
differencebetweentheagentprogram,whichtake