ntity spaces for a small number of variables and their derivatives can be surprisingly powerful. Consider a simple system of a pendulum or a spring with a mass. Let its position be represented by a variable X and its velocity by a variable V, both taking values from X o and V o. The qualitative behaviour of the pendulum can be depicted by an envisionment (de Kleer and Brown, 1984) as shown in Figure 17.5. Figure 17.5 The envisionment of all possible trajectories of a simple pendulum. The ovals represent instantaneous states and the rectangles durative states. Consider the rightmost oval in the figure representing the state in which X and V 0. This could be the state when an agent displaces the pendulum and releases it. It represents an instantaneous state in which the displacement is positive and velocity is zero. We represent instantaneous states by ovals. The pendulum then moves to a new state in which it has a negative velocity, while displacement remains positive. This is a durative state that persists till the pendulum reaches it resting position ( X 0), but continues to have a negative velocity. We represent durative states with rectangles. The oscillatory motion of the pendulum is captured by the movement or evolution of the system state around the circular path in the envisionment. The inner state represents the pendulum at rest, and can be modelled as being reached at the end of the last inward swing. One may want to determine the effect of a set of variables on a given variable. This could be done by operations in the given quantity space similar to addition and multiplication. Addition, denoted , and multiplication, denoted f, of two variables from the same quantity space can be defined as follows. The addition of two variables is given in Table 17.1. Table 17.1 Addition over a quantity space ) BY Py 0 PY Y - - - - 0 - - x 0 - 0 - 0 0 0 0 (YJ 0 Observe that addition of a positive value and a negative value is undefined. Consider a water tank with a tap at