her to the more express s First Order Logic (FOL) we lose the property of decidability. While first order systems are complet hat for an input formula or sentence that is false, the procedure may loop for ever. If we further mc expressive second order logic we even lose the property of completeness. ogics named above are often classified as classical logics. By this we mean two valued logics in v ts are assigh drautieam value only once, exemplified by the domain of mathematics. A the tics is either true or false, and remains so ever after. Logicians have worked on variations on class or change and for uncertainty. elves. If they do so then would they have an understanding of what they are doing? We will not try a sr here. istory of Logic and Knowledge we move on to formal logic as a language for knowledge representation and theorem proving tec a quick look at the evolution of logic over the times. The reader not interested in the tales from the Id skip on to the section on Propositional Logic. The Last Millennium otion of the mind did not exist in our minds always. And it probably does not apply to many life forms slate or argue for or against the idea of a frog, or a lizard, or a mosquito having a mind . But we will n of a mind with the representation and manipulation of symbol systems. John Haugeland (1985) in Intelligence: The Very Idea gives an insightful account of the emergence of the notion of the 1 thought. ips one of the first realizations that the world as in the mind may be distinct from the real exter! h the publication of the geocentric model of the universe by Nicolaus Copernicus (1543). The mental 2 stars went around the earth, turned out to be different from the real phenomenon of the earth rot an illusion of the motion of the heavenly bodies. Galileo Galilei (1564-1642) showed that one ca tion by reasoning with geometric representations. He also believed that the sounds we hear, and th , are created in reality by tiny particles which had no direct r