lse about the grammar remains the same, which is en-
couraging news; it suggests we are on the right track if wecan so easily add a complication
like the tense of verbs (although we have just scratched the surface of a complete grammar
fortimeandtense). Itisalsoencouraging thatthedistinction betweenprocesses anddiscrete
eventsthatwemadeinourdiscussion ofknowledge representation in Section12.3.1isactu-
ally reflected in language use. We can say John slept a lot last night, where Sleeping is a
process category, but it isodd to say John found aunicorn a lot last night, where Finding
is a discrete event category. A grammar would reflect that fact by having a low probability
foraddingtheadverbialphrase alot todiscrete events.
Quantification: Consider the sentence Every agent feels abreeze. Thesentence has
QUANTIFICATION
only one syntactic parse under E , but it is actually semantically ambiguous; the preferred
0
904 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
meaning is For every agent there exists a breeze that the agent feels, but an acceptable
alternativemeaningis Thereexistsabreezethateveryagentfeels. 5 Thetwointerpretations
canberepresented as a a Agents b b Breezes e e Feel(a,b) During(Now,e); b b Breezes a a Agents e e Feel(a,b) During(Now,e).
The standard approach to quantification is for the grammar to define not an actual logical
QUASI-LOGICAL semantic sentence, butrathera quasi-logical form thatisthenturned into alogical sentence
FORM
byalgorithmsoutside oftheparsing process. Thosealgorithms canhavepreference rulesfor
preferring one quantifier scope overanother preferences that need not be reflected directly
inthegrammar.
Pragmatics: We have shown how an agent can perceive a string of words and use a
PRAGMATICS
grammar to derive a set of possible semantic interpretations. Now we address the problem
of completing the interpretation by adding context-dependent information about the current
situation. The most obvious need for pragmatic information is in resolv