action
Figure7.1 Agenericknowledge-basedagent.Givenapercept,theagentaddsthepercept
toitsknowledgebase,askstheknowledgebaseforthebestaction,andtellstheknowledge
basethatithasinfacttakenthataction.
the knowledge level, where we need specify only what the agent knows and what its goals
KNOWLEDGELEVEL
are, in order to fix its behavior. For example, an automated taxi might have the goal of
taking a passenger from San Francisco to Marin County and might know that the Golden
Gate Bridge is the only link between the two locations. Then we can expect it to cross the
Golden Gate Bridgebecauseitknowsthatthatwillachieveitsgoal. Noticethatthisanalysis
IMPLEMENTATION isindependent ofhowthetaxiworksattheimplementationlevel. Itdoesn t matterwhether
LEVEL
itsgeographicalknowledgeisimplementedaslinkedlistsorpixelmaps,orwhetheritreasons
by manipulating strings of symbols stored in registers or by propagating noisy signals in a
networkofneurons.
A knowledge-based agent can be built simply by TEL Ling it what it needs to know.
Starting with an empty knowledge base, the agent designer can TELL sentences one by one
until the agent knows how to operate in its environment. This is called the declarative ap-
DECLARATIVE
proach to system building. In contrast, the procedural approach encodes desired behaviors
directly asprogram code. Inthe1970s and1980s, advocates ofthetwoapproaches engaged
inheateddebates. Wenowunderstandthatasuccessfulagentoftencombinesbothdeclarative
andprocedural elements initsdesign, andthatdeclarative knowledge canoften becompiled
intomoreefficientprocedural code.
We can also provide a knowledge-based agent with mechanisms that allow it to learn
for itself. These mechanisms, which are discussed in Chapter 18, create general knowledge
abouttheenvironment fromaseriesofpercepts. Alearning agentcanbefullyautonomous.
7.2 THE WUMPUS WORLD
Inthissection wedescribe anenvironment inwhichknowledge-based agents canshowtheir
worth. Thewumpusworldisacaveconsistingofroomsconnectedbyp