hods. Theconcept
of a heuristic function must be modified to estimate the cost of a contingent solution rather than asequence, but the notion of admissibility carries over and there is an analog of the A
algorithm forfindingoptimal solutions. Pointers aregiven inthebibliographical notes atthe
endofthechapter.
Section4.3. Searchingwith Nondeterministic Actions 137
1
Suck Right
5 2
Right
6
Figure4.12 Partofthesearchgraphfortheslipperyvacuumworld,wherewehaveshown
(some)cyclesexplicitly. Allsolutionsforthisproblemarecyclicplansbecausethereis no
waytomovereliably.
4.3.3 Try,try again
Consider the slippery vacuum world, which is identical to the ordinary (non-erratic) vac-
uumworldexcept thatmovementactionssometimes fail,leaving theagentinthesameloca-
tion. For example, moving Right in state 1 leads to the state set 1,2 . Figure 4.12 shows
part of the search graph; clearly, there are no longer any acyclic solutions from state 1, and
CYCLICSOLUTION
AND-OR-GRAPH-SEARCH would return with failure. There is, however, a cyclic solution,
whichistokeeptrying Right untilitworks. Wecanexpressthissolutionbyaddingalabelto
LABEL
denote someportion oftheplanandusing thatlabel laterinstead ofrepeating theplanitself.
Thus,ourcyclicsolutionis Suck,L : Right,if State 5then L else Suck .
1 1
(A better syntax for the looping part of this plan would be while State 5 do Right. )
In general a cyclic plan may be considered a solution provided that every leaf is a goal
state and that a leaf is reachable from every point in the plan. The modifications needed
to AND-OR-GRAPH-SEARCH arecoveredin Exercise4.6. Thekeyrealization isthataloop
inthestatespacebacktoastate Ltranslates toaloopintheplanbacktothepointwherethe
subplan forstate Lisexecuted.
Giventhedefinitionofacyclicsolution,anagentexecutingsuchasolutionwilleventu-
allyreachthegoalprovidedthateachoutcomeofanondeterministicactioneventuallyoccurs.
Is this condition reasonable? It depends on the reason forthe nondeterminism. If the action
rollsadi