nt between the subject and the verb. . Consider the problem of providing an English interface to a database of employee records. (a) Write a semantic grammar to define a language for this task. (b) Show a parse, using your grammar, of each of the two sentences - What is Smith's salary? Tell ine who Smith s manager is. (c) Show parses of the two sentences of part (b) using a standard syntactic grammar of English. Show the fragment of the grammar that you use. (d) How do the parses of parts (b) and (c) differ? What do these differences say about the differences between syntactic and semantic grammars? How would the following sentences be represented in a case structure: (a) The plane flew above the clouds (b) John flew to New York (c) The co-pilot flew the plane Both case grammar and conceptual dependency produce representations of sentences in which noun phrases are described in terms of their semantic relationships to the verb. In what ways are the two approaches similar? In what ways are they different? Is one a more general version of the other? As an example, compare the representation of the sentence John broke the window with a hammer in the two formalisms Use compositional semantics and a knowledge base to construct a semantic interpretation of each of the following sentences: (a) A student deleted my file (b) John asked Mary to print the file To do this, you will need to do all the following things: e Define the necessary knowledge base objects e Decide what the output of your parser will be assumed to be Write the necessary semantic interpretation rules Show how the process proceeds Show how conversational postulates can be used to get to the most common, coherent interpretation of each of the following discourses: (a) A: Do you have a comb? (b) A: Would Jones make a good programmer? B: He s a great guy. Everyone likes him (c) A (ina store): Do you have any money? B (A s friend): What do you want to buy? . Winograd and Flores [1986] present an argument that 