rick and WP oy C s a Wedge, these links would eventually merge. At this point, a new oto a fy description of the concept Arch can be generated. This description uo Y <2 could say simply that node C must be either a Brick or a Wedge. B Object D But since this particular disjunction has no previously known isa hot isa significance, it is probably better to trace up the isa hierarchies Brick Brick does-not-marry of Brick and Wedge until they merge. Assuming that that happens at the node Object, the Arch definition shown in Fig. 17.5 can be Fig. 17.5 The Arch Description after built. Twe Examples Next, suppose that the near miss arch shown in Fig. 17.2 is A presented. This time, the comparison routine will note that the = only difference between the current definition and the near miss yy ale Sy is in the does-not-marry link between nodes B and D. But since Or C &,. this is a near miss, we do not want to broaden the definition to oo 184, ry include it. Instead, we want to restrict the definition so that it is Zspve sa 204 specifically excluded. To do this, we modify the link does-not B Object D marry, which may simply be recording something that has jgg left-of isa happened by chance to be true of the small number of examples - right-of - Brick must-not-marry Brick that have been presented. It must now say must-not-marry. The Arch description at this point is shown in Fig. 17.6. Actually, Fig. 17.6 The Arch Description after a must-not-marry should not be a completely new link. There must Near Miss be some structure among link types to reflect the relationship between marry, does-not-marry, and must-notmarry. Notice how the problem-solving and knowledge representation techniques we covered in earlier chapters are brought to bear on the problem of learning. Semantic networks were used to describe block structures, and an isa hierarchy was used to de-scribe relationships among already known objects. A matching process was used to detect similarities and differences betwee