epresented in the tules? The problem can then be solved by using the rules, in combination with an appropriate control strategy, to move through the problem space until a path from an initial state to a goal state is found. Thus the process of search is fundamental to the problem-solving process. The fact that search provides the basis for the process of problem-solving does not, however, mean that other, more direct approaches cannot also be exploited. Whenever possible. they can be included as steps in the search by encoding them into the rules. For example, in the water jug problem, we use the standard arithmetic operations as single steps in the rules. We do not use search to find a number with the property that it is equal to. y (4 x). Of course, for complex problems, more sophisticated computations will be needed. Search is a general mechanism that can be used when no more direct method is known. At the same time, it provides the framework into which more direct methods for solving subparts of a problem can be embedded. 2.2 PRODUCTION SYSTEMS Since search forms the core of many intelligent processes, it is useful to structure AI programs in a way that facilitates describing and performing the search process. Production systems provide such structures. A definition of a production system is given below. Do not be confused by other uses of the word production, such as to describe what is done in factories. A production system consists of: A set of rules, each consisting of a left side (a pattern) that determines the applicability of the rule and a right side that describes the operation to be performed if the rule is applied.* One or more knowledge/databases that contain whatever information is appropriate for the particular task. Some parts of the database may be permanent, while other parts of it may pertain only to the solution of the current problem. The information in these databases may be structured in any appropriate way. A control strategy that specifie