ays in which each of these five things can be done. Choosing Rules to Apply . The most widely used technique for selecting appropriate rules to apply is first to isolate a set of differences between the desired goal state and the current state and then to identify those rules that are relevant to reducing those differences. If several rules are found, a variety of other heuristic information can be exploited to choose among them. This technique is based on the means-ends analysis method (recall Chapter 3). For example, if our goal is to have a white fence around our yard and we currently have a brown fence, we would select operatcrs whose result involves a change of color of an object. If, on the other hand, we currently have no fence, we must first consider operators that involve constructing wooden objects. Applying Rules In the simple systems we have previously discussed, applying rules was easy. Each rule simply specified the problem state that would result from its application, Now, however, we must be able to deal with rules that specify only a small part of the complete problem state. There are many ways of doing this. One way is to describe, for each action, each of the changes it makes to the state description. In addition, some statement that everything else remains unchanged is also necessary. An ON(A, B, SO) . . . . . . A ind) examiple of this approach is described in Green [1969]. In this system, a given af ONTABLE (B, SO)A state was described by a set of predicates representing the facts that were truein _18] CLEAR (A, S0) that state. Each distinct state was represented explicitly as part of the predicate. Fig. 13.1 A Simple For example, Fig. 13.1 shows how a state, called SO, of a simple blocks world Blocks World problem could be represented. Description The manipulation of these state descriptions was done using a resolution theorem prover. So, for example, the effect of the operator UNSTACKC(, y) could be described by the following axiom. (In al! th