, andcalculateitscovariance matrix.
1 2
b. Prove by induction that the joint distribution for a general linear Gaussian network on
X ,...,X isalsoamultivariate Gaussian.
1 n
14.10 Theprobit distribution definedonpage522describes theprobability distribution for
a Booleanchild,givenasinglecontinuous parent.
a. Howmightthedefinition beextended tocovermultiplecontinuous parents?
b. Howmight itbe extended to handle amultivalued child variable? Consider both cases
where the child s values are ordered (as in selecting a gear while driving, depending
on speed, slope, desired acceleration, etc.) and cases where they are unordered (as in
selecting bus, train, orcarto gettowork). (Hint: Considerways todivide the possible
valuesintotwosets,tomimica Booleanvariable.)
14.11 Inyourlocalnuclearpowerstation, thereisanalarmthatsenseswhenatemperature
gauge exceeds agiven threshold. Thegaugemeasures thetemperature ofthecore. Consider
the Boolean variables A (alarm sounds), F (alarm is faulty), and F (gauge is faulty) and
A G
themultivaluednodes G(gaugereading) and T (actualcoretemperature).
a. Draw a Bayesian network for this domain, given that the gauge is more likely to fail
whenthecoretemperature getstoohigh.
b. Isyournetworkapolytree? Whyorwhynot?
c. Supposetherearejusttwopossibleactualandmeasuredtemperatures,normalandhigh;
theprobability thatthegaugegivesthecorrecttemperature isxwhenitisworking, but
y whenitisfaulty. Givetheconditional probability tableassociated with G.
d. Suppose the alarm works correctly unless it is faulty, in which case it never sounds.
Givetheconditional probability tableassociated with A.
e. Suppose the alarm and gauge are working and the alarm sounds. Calculate an expres-
sion for the probability that the temperature of the core is too high, in terms of the
variousconditional probabilities inthenetwork.
562 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
F F F N F M M
1 2 1 2 1 2
M M N
1 2
M M
1 2
N F F
1 2
(i) (ii) (iii)
Figure14.22 Threepossiblenetworksforthetelesco