ntsinglepublicationinthegrowthof Bayesiannetworkswasundoubt-
edly the text Probabilistic Reasoning in Intelligent Systems (Pearl, 1988). Several excellent
texts (Lauritzen, 1996; Jensen, 2001; Korb and Nicholson, 2003; Jensen, 2007; Darwiche,
2009; Koller and Friedman, 2009) provide thorough treatments of the topics we have cov-
ered in this chapter. New research on probabilistic reasoning appears both in mainstream
AI journals, such as Artificial Intelligence and the Journal of AI Research, and in more spe-
cialized journals, suchasthe International Journalof Approximate Reasoning. Manypapers
on graphical models, which include Bayesian networks, appear in statistical journals. The
proceedings oftheconferences on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI),Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems (NIPS), and Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS)are
excellent sourcesforcurrentresearch.
EXERCISES
14.1 Wehaveabagofthree biased coins a,b,and cwithprobabilities ofcoming upheads
of 20 , 60 , and 80 , respectively. Onecoin isdrawn randomly from the bag (with equal
likelihood of drawing each of the three coins), and then the coin is flipped three times to
generate theoutcomes X ,X ,and X .
1 2 3
a. Drawthe Bayesiannetworkcorresponding tothissetupanddefinethenecessary CP Ts.
b. Calculate which coinwasmostlikely tohavebeen drawnfrom thebag iftheobserved
flipscomeoutheadstwiceandtailsonce.
14.2 Equation (14.1) on page 513 defines the joint distribution represented by a Bayesian
networkintermsoftheparameters (X Parents(X )). Thisexerciseasksyoutoderivethe
i i
equivalence between the parameters and the conditional probabilities P(X Parents(X ))
i i
fromthisdefinition.
a. Consider a simple network X Y Z with three Boolean variables. Use Equa-
tions (13.3) and (13.6) (pages 485 and 492) to express the conditional probability
P(z y)astheratiooftwosums,eachoverentriesinthejointdistribution P(X,Y,Z).
b. Now use Equation (14.1) to write this expression in terms of the netwo