ner,workingbackwardfromthe Finish action.
Thecomplexity ofthecritical pathalgorithm isjust O(Nb),where N isthenumberof
actionsandbisthemaximumbranchingfactorintooroutofanaction. (Toseethis,notethat
the LS and ES computations are done once for each action, and each computation iterates
overatmostbotheractions.) Therefore,findingaminimum-durationschedule,givenapartial
ordering ontheactionsandnoresource constraints, isquiteeasy.
Mathematically speaking, critical-path problems areeasy tosolvebecause theyarede-
fined as a conjunction of linear inequalities on the start and end times. When we introduce
resource constraints, the resulting constraints on start and end times become more compli-
cated. For example, the Add Engine actions, which begin at the same time in Figure 11.2,
Section11.1. Time,Schedules, and Resources 405
Engine Hoists(1) Add Engine1 Add Engine2
Wheel Stations(1) Add Wheels1 Add Wheels2
Inspect1
Inspectors(2)
Inspect2
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120
Figure11.3 Asolutiontothejob-shopschedulingproblemfrom Figure11.1,takinginto
account resource constraints. The left-hand margin lists the three reusable resources, and
actions are shown aligned horizontally with the resources they use. There are two possi-
ble schedules, depending on which assembly uses the engine hoist first; we ve shown the
shortest-durationsolution,whichtakes115minutes.
require the same Engine Hoist and so cannot overlap. The cannot overlap constraint is a
disjunction of two linear inequalities, one for each possible ordering. The introduction of
disjunctions turnsouttomakescheduling withresourceconstraints NP-hard.
Figure 11.3 shows the solution with the fastest completion time, 115 minutes. This is
30 minutes longer than the 85 minutes required for a schedule without resource constraints.
Notice that there is no time at which both inspectors are required, so we can immediately
moveoneofourtwoinspectors toamoreproductive position.
The complexity of scheduling with resource cons