area.
Similar gentle revolutions have occurred in robotics, computer vision, and knowledge
representation. Abetterunderstanding oftheproblemsand theircomplexityproperties,com-
bined withincreased mathematical sophistication, has led to workable research agendas and
robustmethods. Althoughincreasedformalizationandspecializationledfieldssuchasvision
androboticstobecomesomewhatisolatedfrom mainstream AIinthe1990s,thistrendhas
reversedinrecentyearsastoolsfrommachinelearninginparticularhaveprovedeffectivefor
manyproblems. Theprocessofreintegration isalreadyyielding significantbenefits
1.3.9 The emergence ofintelligentagents (1995 present)
Perhaps encouraged bytheprogress insolving thesubproblems of AI,researchers havealso
started to look at the whole agent problem again. The work of Allen Newell, John Laird,
and Paul Rosenbloomon SOAR(Newell,1990;Lairdetal.,1987)isthebest-knownexample
of a complete agent architecture. One of the most important environments for intelligent
agents is the Internet. AI systems have become so common in Web-based applications that
the -bot suffix has entered everyday language. Moreover, AI technologies underlie many
Section1.3. The Historyof Artificial Intelligence 27
Internettools, suchassearchengines, recommendersystems, and Websiteaggregators.
Oneconsequenceoftryingtobuildcompleteagentsistherealizationthatthepreviously
isolated subfields of AI might need to be reorganized somewhat when their results are to be
tied together. In particular, it is now widely appreciated that sensory systems (vision, sonar,
speechrecognition, etc.) cannotdeliverperfectlyreliableinformationabouttheenvironment.
Hence, reasoning and planning systems must be able to handle uncertainty. Asecond major
consequence of the agent perspective is that AI has been drawn into much closer contact
with other fields, such as control theory and economics, that also deal with agents. Recent
progressinthecontrolofroboticcarshasderivedfromamixtureofapproachesrangingfrom
better sens