 Artificial Life. The main conference is the Genetic
and Evolutionary Computation Conference(GECCO).Goodoverviewtextsongeneticalgo-
rithmsaregivenby Mitchell (1996), Fogel(2000), and Langdon and Poli(2002), andbythe
freeonlinebookby Polietal.(2008).
The unpredictability and partial observability of real environments were recognized
early on in robotics projects that used planning techniques, including Shakey (Fikes et al.,
1972) and FREDDY (Michie, 1974). Theproblems received moreattention after thepublica-
tionof Mc Dermott s(1978a) influentialarticle, Planningand Acting.
Thefirstworktomakeexplicituseof AND ORtreesseemstohavebeen Slagle s SAINT
program for symbolic integration, mentioned in Chapter 1. Amarel (1967) applied the idea
to propositional theorem proving, a topic discussed in Chapter 7, and introduced a search
algorithm similar to AND-OR-GRAPH-SEARCH. The algorithm was further developed and formalized by Nilsson (1971), who also described AO which, as its name suggests, finds optimalsolutionsgivenanadmissibleheuristic. AO wasanalyzedandimprovedby Martelli and Montanari (1973). AO is a top-down algorithm; a bottom-up generalization of A is ALD,for A Lightest Derivation (Felzenszwalb and Mc Allester, 2007). Interest in AND OR
search has undergone a revival in recent years, with new algorithms for finding cyclic solu-
tions(Jimenezand Torras,2000;Hansenand Zilberstein, 2001)andnewtechniques inspired
bydynamicprogramming (Bonetand Geffner,2005).
Theideaoftransforming partially observable problemsintobelief-state problemsorig-
inated with Astrom(1965) forthemuchmorecomplexcaseofprobabilistic uncertainty (see
Chapter17). Erdmann and Mason (1988) studied theproblem of robotic manipulation with-
outsensors, usingacontinuous formofbelief-state search. Theyshowedthatitwaspossible
toorientapartonatablefromanarbitraryinitialposition byawell-designedsequenceoftilt-
ingactions. Morepracticalmethods,basedonaseriesofpreciselyorienteddiagonalbarriers
acrossaconveyorbelt,u