ue false
true false false false true false false
true true false true true true true
Figure7.8 Truthtablesforthefivelogicalconnectives. Tousethetabletocompute,for
example,thevalueof P Qwhen P istrueand Qisfalse,firstlookontheleftfortherow
where P istrueand Qisfalse(thethirdrow).Thenlookinthatrowunderthe P Qcolumn
toseetheresult: true.
the sentence P (P P ), evaluated in m , gives true (false true) true 1,2 2,2 3,1 1
true true. Exercise7.3asksyoutowritethealgorithm PL-TRUE?(s,m),whichcomputes
thetruthvalueofapropositional logicsentence sinamodelm.
Thetruth tables for and, or, and not areinclose accord withourintuitions about
the Englishwords. Themainpointofpossibleconfusionisthat P Qistruewhen P istrue
or Q is true or both. A different connective, called exclusive or ( xor for short), yields
false when both disjuncts are true.7 There is no consensus on the symbol for exclusive or;
somechoicesare or(cid:7) or .
Thetruth table for maynot quite fitone s intuitive understanding of P implies Q or if P then Q. Foronething,propositionallogicdoesnotrequireanyrelationofcausation
orrelevancebetween P and Q. Thesentence 5isoddimplies Tokyoisthecapitalof Japan is a true sentence of propositional logic (under the normal interpretation), even though it is
a decidedly odd sentence of English. Another point of confusion is that any implication is
true whenever its antecedent is false. Forexample, 5 is even implies Sam is smart is true,
regardless of whether Sam is smart. This seems bizarre, but it makes sense if you think of P Q assaying, If P istrue,then Iamclaimingthat Qistrue. Otherwise Iammaking
noclaim. Theonlywayforthissentence tobefalseisif P istruebut Qisfalse.
The biconditional, P Q, is true whenever both P Q and Q P are true. In
English,thisisoftenwrittenas P ifandonlyif Q. Manyoftherulesofthewumpusworld
are best written using . Forexample, a square is breezy if a neighboring square has a pit,
andasquareisbreezy onlyifaneighboring squarehasapit. Soweneedabiconditional,
B (