 salient than others, and they should be considered first. Highly salient relations include physical-part-of, temporal-part-of, and elementof. In this example, physical-part-of relates the title page to the book that is in focus as a result of its mention iu the previous sentence. Other ways of using focused information also exist. We examine some of them in the remaining parts of this section. 15.4.2 Modeling Beliefs Tn order for a program to be able to participate intelligently in a dialogue, it must be able to represent not only its own beliefs about the world, but also its knowledge of the other dialogue participant s beliefs about the world, that person s beliefs about the computer s beliefs, and so forth. The remark She knew T knew she knew I knew she knew ! may be a bit extreme, but we do that kind of thinking all the time. To make computational models of belief, it is useful to divide the issue into two parts: those beliefs that can be assumed to be shared among all the participants in a linguistic event and those that cannot. Modeling Shared Beliefs Shared beliefs can be modeled without any explicit notion of belief in the knowledge base. All we need to do is represent the shared beliefs as facts, and they will be accessed whenever knowledge about anyone s beliefs is needed. We have already discussed techniques for doing this. For example, much of the knowledge described in Chapter 10 is exactly the sort that people presume is shared by other people they are communicating with. Scripts, in particular, have been used extensively to aid in natural language understanding. Recall that scripts record commonly occurring sequences of events. There are two steps in the process of using a script to aid in language understanding: Select the appropriate script(s) from memory. * Use the script(s) to fill in unspecified parts of the text to be understood. Both of these aspects of reasoning with scripts have already been discussed in Section 10.2. The storyunderstanding 