at it combined language parsing with memory search. It searched its memory as it read each word, and thus combined a bottom flavour with the top-down memory based one. A big advantage of integrating memory search with language parsing is that the two processes can influence each other, thus making tasks like word sense disambiguation easier. When BORIS is listening to a question, it is not only constructing a Conceptual Dependency representation, but also consulting its episodic memory looking for the answer, and often knows the answer even before completely parsing the question. Here is an example from (Dyer et al., 1981), George was having lunch with another teacher and grading homework assignments when the waitress accidentally knocked a glass of coke on him. George was very annoyed and left, refusing to pay the check. He decided to drive home to get out of his wet clothes. When he got there, he found his wife Ann and another man in bed. George became extremely upset and felt like going out and getting plastered... Q: Why didn t George pay the check? BORIS: Because the waitress spilled coke on him. Q: How did Ann feel when George caught her cheating on him? BORIS: She was surprised. The architecture of BORIS is shown in Figure 14.19. The most significant new structure introduced by Dyer was the Thematic Abstraction Unit (TAU). The TAU is an abstraction of a planning situation where some expectation failure occurs in planning. A TAU is designed to capture the kind of distilled experience that is often expressed in adages like the pot calling the kettle black , throwing stones when you live in a glass house , or closing the barn door after the horse has escaped . A TAU represents an abstract situation-outcome patterns in situations where plans are deployed in terms of (1) the plan used, (2) its intended effect, (3) why it failed, and (4) how to avoid or recover from that type of failure. The TAU for the closing the barn door adage is represented as (Dyer, 1983), TA