te the elaborate interviewing protocols that researchers experimented with, domain experts were either unable or unwilling to articulate their knowledge in the form of rules. And like in other domains, the lure of deploying techniques to extract performance directly from delving into data was becoming more appealing. In the nineties, things began to change. The Internet was growing at a rapid pace. Automation was happening in all kinds of places. The problem of getting data was the least of the problems; making sense of it was. By this time, we were at the cusp of the 215 century. There were other strands of investigation in Al research that had been and were flourishing. Research areas like qualitative reasoning, nonmonotonic reasoning, probabilistic reasoning, case based reasoning, constraint satisfaction, and data mining were evolving. Robots were becoming more and more capable, and robotic football was providing an exciting domain for integration of various ideas. The ageing population in many advanced countries is motivating research in robotic companions and care givers. John Laird had declared that the next level of computer games is the killer application for artificial intelligence. Search engines were ferreting out information from websites in far flung areas. Machines talking to each other across the world demanded advances in Ontology. Tim Berners-Lee had put forth the idea of the Semantic Web. NASA was deploying Al technology in deep space. Kismet at MIT was beginning to smile. The last frontier is perhaps Machine Learning, the automatic acquisition of knowledge from data, which seems again a possibility, given the increasing ability of machines to crunch through large amounts of data. But not before, as Haugeland says in his book, Al: The Very Idea, before we have solved the knowledge representation problem. As we have seen, the juggernaut of Al has been lurching along. Quite like the search methods Al algorithms embody, Al research has also been explo