f knowledge can also be somewhat more expressive than other representation schemes. This probably accounts for the popularity and the diversity of representation models for which they have been employed. They have, for example, been used in a variety of systems such as, iatural language understanding. information retrieval. deductive data bases, learning systems, computer vision, and in speech generation systems. Syntax and Semantics of Associative Networks Unlike FOPL. there is no generally accepted syntax nor semantics for associative networks. Such rules tend to be designer dependent and vary greatly from one implementation to another. Most network systems are based on PL or FOPL with extensions, however. The syntax for any given system is determined by the object and relation primitives chosen and by any special rules used to connect nodes. Some efforts have been made toward the establishment of acceptable standards by Sec. 7.2 Associative Networks 129 Schubert, Goebel. and Cercone (1979). Shapiro (1979), Hendrix (1979). and Brachman (1979). Later in this section we will review one formal approach to graphical representations which was recently proposed by John Sowa (1984). Basically, the language of associative networks is formed from letters of the alphabet, both upperand lowercase', relational symbols, set membership and subset symbols, decimal digits, square and oval nodes, and directed arcs of arbitrary length. The word symbok used are those which represent object constants and n-ary relation constants. Nodes are commonly used for objects or nouns, and arcs (or arc nodes) for relations. The direction of an arc is usually taken from the first to subsequent arguments as they appear in a relational statement. Thus, OWNS(bobs,house) would be written as OII Figure 7.3 depicts graphically some additional concepts not expressed in Figure 7.1. A number of arc relations have become common among users. They include such predicates as ISA, MEMBER-OF, SUBSET-OF, AKO (a