the table provides the information required to patch the plan. Metaplanning [Stefik, 1981a] A technique for reasoning not just about the problem being solved but also about the planning process itself. Macro-operators [Fikes and Nilsson, 1971] Allow a planner to build new operators that represent commonly used sequences of operators. See Chapter 17 for more details. Case-Based Planning [Hammond, 1986] Re-uses old plans to make new ones. We return to casebased planning in Chapter 19. Consider the following blocks world problem: A; |Cc Cc} |D B/] |D BI JA start: ON(C, B) A goal: ON(C, B)/A ON(Q, A) A ON(D, A) A ONTABLE(B) A ONTABLE(B) A ONTABLE(A) A ONTABLE(A) ARMEMPTY (a) Show how STRIPS would solve this problem. (b) Show how TWEAK would solve this problem. (c) Did these processes produce optimal plans? If not. could they be modified to do so? Consider the problem of devising a plan for cleaning the kitchen. (a) Write a set of STRIPS-style operators that might be used. When you describe the operators, take into account such considerations as: Cleaning the stove or the refrigerator will get the floor dirty. To clean the oven, it is necessary to apply oven cleaner and then to remove the cleaner. Before the floor can be washed, it must be swept. Before the floor can be swept, the garbage must be taken out. Cleaning the refrigerator generates garbage and messes up the counters. Washing the counters or the floor gets the sink dirty. (b) Write a description of a likely initial state of a kitchen in need of cleaning. Also write a description of a desirable (but perhaps rarely obtained) goal state. (c) Show how the technique of planning using a goal stack could be used to solve this problem. (Hint you may want to modify the definition of an ADD condition so that when a condition is added to the database, its negation is automatically deleted if present.) . In Section 13.4, we showed an example of a situation in which a search path could be terminated because it led back to o