epathcostisthenumberofstepsinthepath.
What abstractions have weincluded here? The actions are abstracted to their beginning and
finalstates,ignoringtheintermediatelocationswheretheblockissliding. Wehaveabstracted
away actions such as shaking the board when pieces get stuck and ruled out extracting the
pieceswithaknifeandputtingthembackagain. Weareleftwithadescriptionoftherulesof
thepuzzle, avoiding allthedetailsofphysicalmanipulations.
SLIDING-BLOCK The 8-puzzle belongs to the family of sliding-block puzzles, which are often used as
PUZZLES
test problems for new search algorithms in AI. This family is known to be NP-complete,
so one does not expect to find methods significantly better in the worst case than the search
algorithmsdescribedinthischapterandthenext. The8-puzzlehas9! 2 181,440reachable
statesandiseasilysolved. The15-puzzle(ona4 4board)hasaround1.3trillionstates,and
randominstancescanbesolvedoptimallyinafewmillisecondsbythebestsearchalgorithms.
The24-puzzle (on a 5 5board) has around 1025 states, and random instances take several
hourstosolveoptimally.
The goal of the 8-queens problem is to place eight queens on a chessboard such that
8-QUEENSPROBLEM
no queen attacks any other. (A queen attacks any piece in the same row, column or diago-
nal.) Figure3.5shows anattempted solution thatfails: the queen inthe rightmost column is
attacked bythequeenatthetopleft.
72 Chapter 3. Solving Problemsby Searching
Figure3.5 Almostasolutiontothe8-queensproblem.(Solutionisleftasanexercise.)
Although efficient special-purpose algorithms exist forthis problem and forthe whole
n-queens family, it remains auseful test problem forsearch algorithms. Thereare twomain
INCREMENTAL kindsofformulation. Anincrementalformulationinvolvesoperatorsthataugmentthestate
FORMULATION
description, starting with an empty state; for the 8-queens problem, this means that each
COMPLETE-STATE action adds a queen to the state. A complete-state formulation starts with all 8 queens on
FORMULATION
thebo