 ordering, but several good heuristics
are available. One fairly effective method is a greedy one: eliminate whichever variable
minimizesthesizeofthenextfactortobeconstructed.
Let us consider one more query: P(John Calls Burglary true). As usual, the first
stepistowriteoutthenestedsummation:
(cid:12) (cid:12) (cid:12)
P(J b) P(b) P(e) P(a b,e)P(J a) P(m a).
e a m (cid:2)
Evaluating thisexpression from right toleft, wenotice something interesting: P(m a)
m
isequal to1by definition! Hence, there wasnoneed toinclude itin thefirstplace; the vari-
able M is irrelevant to this query. Another way of saying this is that the result of the query
P(John Calls Burglary true) is unchanged if we remove Mary Calls from the network
altogether. Ingeneral,wecanremoveanyleafnodethatisnotaqueryvariableoranevidence
variable. Afteritsremoval, theremaybesomemoreleafnodes, andthesetoomaybeirrele-
vant. Continuing this process, we eventually find that every variable that is not an ancestor
of a query variable or evidence variable is irrelevant to the query. A variable elimination
algorithm cantherefore removeallthesevariablesbeforeevaluating thequery.
14.4.3 The complexityofexact inference
Thecomplexityofexactinferencein Bayesiannetworksdependsstronglyonthestructureof
thenetwork. Theburglarynetworkof Figure14.2belongstothefamilyofnetworksinwhich
thereisatmostoneundirected pathbetweenanytwonodes inthenetwork. Thesearecalled
singlyconnectednetworksorpolytrees,andtheyhaveaparticularlyniceproperty: Thetime
SINGLYCONNECTED
andspacecomplexityofexactinferenceinpolytreesislinearinthesizeofthenetwork. Here,
POLYTREE
the size is defined as the number of CPT entries; if the number of parents of each node is
bounded byaconstant, thenthecomplexity willalsobelinearinthenumberofnodes.
MULTIPLY Formultiplyconnectednetworks,suchasthatof Figure14.12(a),variableelimination
CONNECTED
can have exponential time and space complexity in the worst case, even when the number
of parents per node is bounded. This is n