are used to represent the meanings of different English (or other language) sentences. The graphs are constructed from elementary structures in accordance with basic syntax rules. Some of the basic concept rules are as follows. PP ACT Some picture producers perform primitive actions. PP PA Picture producers have attributes. ACT PP Primitive actions have objects. r PP ACT -Lpp Primitive actions have recipients. LOC ACT - Primitive actions have directions. b. LOC T Conceptualizations have times. LOC Conceptualizations have locations. ACT I -o Primitive actions have instruments. Using these syntactic elements, structures which represent any sentence can be constructed. Some examples of simple graphs and their corresponding sentences are illustrated in Figure 7.11. More complex sentence representations are constructed from the basic building blocks given above. Note the similarities between CD theory and the conceptual graphs of the previous section. Both have primitive concepts and relations defined, and both have a syntax for graphical representation. Conceptual graphs differ from CDs mainly in that the conceptual graph is logic based. whereas CD theory is mainly concerned with the semantics of events. We now turn to theevent representation structure which uses CDs, the script. Sec. 7.4 Conceptual Dependencies and Scripts 143 Scripts are frame-like structures used to represent commonly occurring experiences such as going to the movies, shopping in a supermarket, eating in a restaurant, or visiting a dentist. Like a script for a play, the script structure is described in terms SIRl PT-NAME: food market TRACK supermarket ROLES shopper deli attendant seafood attendant checkout clerk sacking clerk other shoppers ENTRY COMMONS shopper needs groceries food market open PROPS shopping can display aisles market items. checkout stands cashier money SCENE1 Enter Market shopper PTRANS shopper into market shopper PTRANS shopping-cart to shopper Sc ENE2 Shop For Items shopper MOVE 