P, F, C) are all formulas without free variables. A variable in t is not in the scope of any quantifier. FOLSemantics llest unit in prepasitianallegic is the sentence. The sentence can stand for something, and the sent ned a truth value. In FOL a sentence is made up of different kinds of symbols and the meanir is to be determined by what the constituent parts stand for. Unlike propositional logic where a nte 3 mapped to the element of the domain D as follows. Ift Vthen t4 A Ifte Cthen t4 lft f (ty, b, ..., th) then t'4 A(t A, b IA, wa lh IA) redit for our notion of the predicate, its meaning and its truth value must go far back to Plato s Plato associated the notion of forms with properties such as tall, white and the notion of sitt like Theaetetus is sitting the constituents Theaetetus and is sitting may be meaningful in the either true nor false. Their combination is both meaningful and capable of having a truth value. terms stand for objects in the domain, and predicates stand for relations on the domain. 1 ent to formulas is as follows. Val(T) true Val(L) false Val(t, BS tp) A true iff tA a fylLA dicate with variables is assigned a value true under some assignment function A if the correspond o the corresponding relation. Val(P(t,, t, eng ) true iff t, A, tA, weey tpIA e Pl tence of L(P, F, C) does not have any free variables. A sentence of the form 3 x(q) is true if there x for which the formula is true. For a sentence in which the variable is universally quantified then the true for all possible values of x. Formally, x (a)) A iff a is true for some assignment B that is an x-variant2 of A. In other words the formula c ) some value of x. x (a)) A iff a 8 is true for all possible assignments B that are x-variants of A. In other words the varia any value and a must be true. ompound formulas constructed by the use of logical connectives the truth values are arrived at in 1 as in propositional logic. neaning of the terms and sentences of a set of FOL sentences is g