orce The following algorithm is guaranteed to return the optimal solution BritishMuseumProcedure () l Explcre the entire search space 2 return the cptimal solution FIGURE 5.1 The British Museum Procedure. The algorithm is conceptually simple. Computationally, it is mindlessly expensive. We owe the name to P H Winston who asserts that the only way to locate something in the British Museum is to explore the entire museum (Winston, 1992). The above algorithm simply searches the entire search space. Our focus in this chapter will be to search as little of the space as possible, while guaranteeing the optimal solution. 5.2 Branch Bound The intuition behind Branch Bound (B B) is as follows. Organize a search space that does not preclude any solution. This could be the state space, in which a partial sequence of moves is extended in each move. This could also be a refinement space in which an abstract solution is refined. Continue looking for a solution by refining the cheapest candidate until Acomplete solution is found a No candidate solution, partial or complete, with an estimated cost smaller than that of the complete solution exists A high level algorithm is given in Figure 5.2. Here the task is to find the lowest cost path from a start node to a goal node, and the algorithm extends the cheapest cost partial solution at each stage. B B Procedure () 1 open (start, NIL, Cost(start)) 2 closed 3 while TRUE 4 do if Empty (open) 5 then return FAILURE 6 Pick cheapest node n from open 7 if GoalTest (Head(n)) 8 then return ReconstructPath(n) i) else children MoveGen(Head(n)) 10 for each m children 11 do Cost(m) Cost(n) K(m, n) 12 Add (m, Head(n), Cost(m)) to open FIGURE 5.2 Branch and Bound extends the cheapest solution till the cheapest solution reaches the goal. The basic idea behind B B is to ignore those regions of a search space that are known not to contain a better solution. We look at an example in which the cost of a move corresponds to the length of an edge in a grap