tisthejobof
theknowledgebasetoruleoutmodelsthatareinconsistent withourknowledge.
4 Later,in Section8.2.8,weexamineasemanticsinwhicheveryobjecthasexactlyonename.
Section8.2. Syntaxand Semanticsof First-Order Logic 293
Sentence Atomic Sentence Complex Sentence
Atomic Sentence Predicate Predicate(Term,...) Term Term
Complex Sentence (Sentence ) Sentence Sentence Sentence Sentence Sentence Sentence Sentence Sentence Sentence Sentence Quantifier Variable,... Sentence
Term Function(Term,...) Constant Variable
Quantifier Constant A X John 1
Variable a x s Predicate True False After Loves Raining Function Mother Left Leg OPERATORPRECEDENCE : , , , , , Figure8.3 The syntax of first-orderlogic with equality, specified in Backus Naurform
(seepage1060ifyouarenotfamiliarwiththisnotation).Operatorprecedencesarespecified,
from highest to lowest. The precedence of quantifiers is such that a quantifier holds over
everythingtotherightofit.
R J R J R J R J R J R J
. . . . . . . . .
Figure8.4 Somemembersofthesetofallmodelsforalanguagewithtwoconstantsym-
bols,Rand J,andonebinaryrelationsymbol.Theinterpretationofeachconstantsymbolis
shownbyagrayarrow.Withineachmodel,therelatedobjectsareconnectedbyarrows.
294 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
Insummary,amodelinfirst-orderlogicconsistsofasetofobjectsandaninterpretation
that maps constant symbols to objects, predicate symbols to relations on those objects, and
function symbols to functions on those objects. Just as with propositional logic, entailment,
validity, and so on are defined in terms of all possible models. To get an idea of what the
set ofallpossible models looks like, see Figure 8.4. Itshows that models vary inhow many
objects they contain from one up to infinity and in the way the constant symbols map
to objects. If there are two constant symbols and one object, then both symbols must refer
to the same object; but this can still happen even with more objects. When there are more
objects thanconstant symbols, someoftheobjects willhave