laxed, afraid, sleepy. Create CD representations for the following sentences, (a) Ainmere bought a book. (b) Adriana threw the pencil to Ayumu. (c) Adriana threw the pencil at Ayumu. (d) The bottles are filled with wine. (e) The bottles are filled with automatic machines. (f) Adora killed the cockroaches with insecticide. (g) Abasi ate the ice cream with gusto. (h) Abasi ate the ice cream with a spoon. (i) Their hearts were filled with pride. (j) He shot the girl with the rifle. (k) He shot the girl with the boy. (l) She ate the ice cream with the boy. (m) He fought with his brother against the intruders. (n) He fought with his brother. (0) He went pale with fear. (p) She left the notebooks with me. (q) Ajinkya s brother used to live with him. (r) She helped the man with the broken arm. Convert the following stories into CD like FOL representation. (592""Bgid?ISld her grandfather that Clara was likely to come to their home. Some time later, Clara came to their home. Heidi was (b) Drona put down his weapons because he came abu aM his son was dead. This was because Yudhistra told him that Aswathama was killed by Bhima. (c) Bush told Blair that Osama was a bad man and that is why Bush was going to bomb Afghanistan. This happened after the planes crashed into the WTC buildings 18. In the English language one often finds the use of of in phrases like six yards of Kanjeevaram silk , or two litres of lemonade , or a pint of beer . How would you write rules to handle such occurrences of of in a language processing system? 1 Mortal and Bright are treated by FOL identically with Man and Student, though we might think of them as properties and not categories. Thus the unary predicate Mortal identifies the subset in the domain that is, or has the property of being mortal. Many people in the tropical areas in fact do not know snow first hand, and can only try and imagine its soft crunchy and cold touch. We use numeric suffixes to create unique constants in order to avoid the pos