examine examples of the four methods and reserve our descriptions of more classical Al learning approaches for Chapters 18. 19. and 20. The systems we use as examples here are famous ones that have received much attention in the literature. They ale Rosenblatt's perceptrons, Samuel's checkers playing system, Learning Automata, and Genetic Algorithms. 367 368 Early Work in Machine Learning Chap. 17 17.2 PERCEPTRONs Perceptions are pattern recognition or classification devices that are crude approximations otneural networks. They make decisions about patterns by summing up evidence obtained from many small sources. They can he taught to recognize one or more classes of objects through the use of stimuli in the form of labeled training examples. A simplified perceptron system is illustrated in Figure 17. I. The inputs to the system are through an array of sensors such as a rectangular grid of light sensitive pixels. These sensors are randomly connected in groups to associative threshold units ATU where the sensor outputs are combined and added together. If the combined outputs to an ATIJ exceed some fixed threshold, the ATU unit executes and produces a binary output. The outputs from the ATU are each multiplied by adjustable parameters or weights se (i = I, 2.... . k) and the results added together in a terminal comparator unit. If the input to the comparator exceeds a riven threshold level 1'. the perceptron produces a positive response of I (yes) corresponding to a sample classification of class. I. Otherwise, the output is 0 (no) corresponding to an object classification of non-class-I All components of the system are fixed except the weights is, which are adjusted through a punishment-reward process described below! This learning process contin Associative Sensor array - ....... .... . .----. .s _. Ys No F'igure 17.1 A sirnpic perceptron. Sec. 17.2 Perceptrons 369 0 o 00/ 0/4. 1+ + 0 0/4. + - 00 /+ + 0 00/ + + + + 0/ + 0 Figure 17.2 Geometrical illustration of sepa