t. Further, since one cannot predict what new tiles one will draw from the bag, even your own moves at the third ply cannot be generated. Hence, the traditional methods based on the Minimax algorithm cannot be used. Moreover, a typical Scrabble position has about 700 possible moves (Sheppard, 2002), which may go up to 8000 if the player holds two blanks. Therefore, searching the game tree would anyway be difficult. In the end of the game, when the bag becomes empty, the game reduces to a complete information game and traditional methods can be used. Obviously, performance in Scrabble is critically dependent of the vocabulary of the player. The more words a player knows, the more the possibility of making high scoring words on the board. In this respect, a computer program has a distinct advantage, since the entire dictionary can be stored. The OSPD contains 95,000 words, and this is considerably more than the number of words humans typically have access to. Apart from the knowledge of words, there is also a combinatorial and tactical aspect to the game. Placing high point letters on hotspots yield more points. The letters left behind on the rack, known as rack leave, also have a bearing on the future scores of the players. In all these aspects, the computational power of a machine can be harnessed profitably, and it is no surprise that the best Scrabble players are computers. A brief history of early Scrabble playing programs can be found in (Appel and Jacobson, 1988). A program named Maven?4 developed by Brian Sheppard (2002) has long been the reigning champion. More recent work on modelling the opponent and guessing the tiles on her rack (Richards and Amir, 2007) has taken computer Scrabble performance even further. While Maven is now a commercial program, the program by Richards and Amir, Inference Player, was developed on top of a freely available open-source program? called Quackle (KatzBrown and O Laughlin, 2006). Richards program makes inferences about the ti