ges: 5 sign 10 factorial 'once upon a time' Size #la b c d) reversed 68 as Character 152 Object-Oriented Representations Chap. b In each of these examples, the first item in the message is the receiver object, and the second item the selector. The first example returns the integer + I to signify a positive algebraic sign for the number 5. The second example returns 3628800 the factorial value of the integer 10. The third example returns 16. the length of the string. The fourth returns the array #(d c b a), and the fifth returns D. the ASCII character equivalent of 68. Binary messages take one argument. Arithmetic operations are typical of binary messages, where the first operand is the receiver, the selector is the arithmetic operation to be performed, and the second operand is the argument. Examples of binary messages are 10 + 32 'an addition message" 13 - 9 "a subtraction message" 22 7 "multiplication message" 54/ 2 "rational division message" #(a b c). #(d e f) 'the comma concatenates two arrays" 7 9 "relational test message" 7 (r 12 "an x-y coordinate point reference" Comments may be placed anywhere within an OOS pro-gram using the double quotation marks as seen in the above examples. Note that the last three examples are nonarithmetic binary messages. They result in the combinog ..' two arrays into one, a boolean relational test, and the creation of a graphics coordinate point at column 7, row 12, respectively. The third and most general type of message is the keyword message. These messages have selectors which consist of one or more keyword identifiers, where each is followed by a colon and an argument. The argument can be an object or any message, but if it is another keyword message, it must be enclosed in parentheses to avoid ambiguity. Examples of keyword messages are 5 between: 4 and: 10 - "a Boolean test" 'aecdb' cor,y Frorr: 2 to: 5 "copies position 2 of the string to position 5" #(a b Cx) at: 4 rut: #(d e) "the elements of #(d e) replace x in the arra