d explicitly by listing the individuals. The language extension is o. Thus, extensions may be described as AL UJ E Q F 0 INI, depending upon the additional descriptors. In addition to allowing different concept forming operators, description languages may also allow one to specify roles in terms of other roles. Thus, we may have role inverse, role intersection, role union, role complement and role composition operators to form new roles. Description languages may be characterized by role transitivity (characterized by S) role hierarchy (like the RESTR operator described earlier, characterized by H)),and complex role inclusion (characterized by R).See also Section 14.7.8 on OWL. The interested reader is encouraged to visit the site (Zolin) on DL complexity maintained by Evgeny Zolin of Manchestor University, UK. 14.7.8 The Web Ontology Language The most widely accepted definition of an ontology is due to Tom Gruber an ontology is a specification of a conceptualization (Gruber, 1993). The Free Online Dictionary of Computing expands the definition2 "An explicit formal specification of how to represent the objects, concepts and other entities that are assumed to exist in some area of interest and the relationships that hold among them. ... For Al systems, what exists is that which can be represented. The ontology provides a framework for knowledge representation. In a broader sense, an ontology is a study of things that might exist. From the philosophical point of view Ontology seeks to provide a definitive and exhaustive classification of entities in all spheres of being (Smith, 2003). An ontology specifies the classes of entities that might be needed to completely specify knowledge in a domain2 . Interest in Ontology (or ontologies as we often say) increased manifold with the emergence of the World Wide Web. The Web is not just a medium for people accessing pages put up by others, but also for programs accessing data hosted in remote systems and sending data to other 