the figure show 4 and 1, and this means that the player can move one checker 4 steps and another, possibly the same one, 1 step. Every move can only be made to an open point that contains one or zero opponent checkers. If a player rolls double (same number on both dice) then the player gets four (double) moves. The players move in opposite directions from a symmetric starting position, and the first one to bear all checkers off, is the winner. In addition, if the losing player has all checkers on board, the winner wins a gammon. If the loser has a checker in the winner s home or on the bar (see figure) then she loses a Backgammon. The players may also raise the stake by using a doubling dice that is labelled with the numbers 2, 4, 8, 16, 32 and 64. Outer board White's home 130 14 15) 16 17 18 19 200 (21 22 23 24 Outer board Black's home FIGURE 8.42 The initial position in Backgammon. The numbers are shown for Black. The objective is to bring your pieces to your home, and then bear them off the board. The moves are decided by a pair of dice. Thus basically, the game is a race between two players, running in opposite directions on the same track. The speed of the two players is determined by the throw of the dice. The game gets its complexity from the interaction between the checkers of the two players. For one, a player cannot place her checker on a point occupied by two or more of the opponent's checkers. As a corollary, players can aim to block the opponent by occupying crucial points with two or more checkers. Secondly, a checker can be played on a point that has one checker of the opponent (known as a blot). In doing so, the resident checker is hit, and has to move to the bar (shown in the figure) and try and get back on the board again. A preliminary throw of a single dice decides who plays first. After that, the players play alternately until one of them has moved all the checkers off the board. The decision making task of the player is, given the throw of a pa