.
0
In classical planning, where the closed-world assumption is made, we would assume that
any fluentnot mentioned inastate is false, but in sensorless (and partially observable) plan-
ning we have to switch to an open-world assumption in which states contain both positive
and negative fluents, and if a fluent does not appear, its value is unknown. Thus, the belief
state corresponds exactly to the set of possible worlds that satisfy the formula. Given this
initialbeliefstate,thefollowingactionsequence isasolution: Remove Lid(Can ),Paint(Chair,Can ),Paint(Table,Can ) .
1 1 1
We now show how to progress the belief state through the action sequence to show that the
finalbeliefstatesatisfiesthegoal.
First, note that in a given belief state b, the agent can consider any action whose pre-
conditions aresatisfied by b. (Theotheractions cannot beused because thetransition model
doesn t define the effects of actions whose preconditions might be unsatisfied.) According
418 Chapter 11. Planningand Actinginthe Real World
to Equation (4.4) (page 139), the general formula for updating the belief state b given an
applicable actionainadeterministic worldisasfollows:
b (cid:2) RESULT(b,a) s (cid:2) : s (cid:2) RESULTP (s,a)ands b where RESULTP definesthephysicaltransitionmodel. Forthetimebeing,weassumethatthe
initial belief state is always a conjunction of literals, that is, a 1-CNF formula. To construct
(cid:2)
thenewbeliefstateb,wemustconsiderwhathappens toeachliteral (cid:3)ineachphysicalstate
sinbwhenactionaisapplied. Forliteralswhosetruthvalueisalreadyknowninb,thetruth
(cid:2)
value in b is computed from the current value and the add list and delete list of the action.
(For example, if (cid:3) is in the delete list of the action, then (cid:3) is added to b (cid:2) .) What about a
literalwhosetruthvalueisunknowninb? Therearethreecases:
(cid:2)
1. Iftheactionadds(cid:3),then(cid:3)willbetrueinb regardless ofitsinitialvalue.
(cid:2)
2. Iftheactiondeletes(cid:3),then(cid:3)willbefa