n accept all English sentences and reject all invalid ones seems doable. In the light of the problems discussed in the introduction, however, defining the grammar would be incredibly challenging, and getting around ambiguities harder. Even if we did manage to construct models for a subclass of English, we would not be sure we had systems that actually understood the sentences, since we have observed that understanding needs a wealth of common sense and background knowledge that is not (yet) available in a form that machines can readily use. It makes sense to systematically analyse the fundamental problems that we need to address, if we were to make some progress in understanding the conceptual basis of natural language. This is the first major step in building machines that can reason with natural languages. Physics is about matter, but instead of studying all varied forms of matter, it starts out by examining basic building blocks like atoms, what are shared by all matter. In NLP, the most fundamental building block is a word. We associate properties with atoms; a sulphur atom is different from a chlorine atom. We associate properties with words; an elephant refers to something and a donkey to something else. A sulphur atom can be broken down further into particles like electrons, protons and neutrons, but the important point is that a sulphur electron is indistinguishable from a chlorine electron. Similarly, a word can be broken down to letters, but the letter n in elephant is indistinguishable from the letter n in donkey . Thus, an atom is a specific configuration of primitives (like electrons, protons, neutrons) that has a unique property, and a word is a specific configuration of primitives (letters) that has a unique property. Let us start our study of language by examining the properties of words. The first property of a word is that it has a meaning; a word is a surrogate for something in the material or the abstract world. Letters that constitute a word don