leration that we humans have in our inner ears. By integrating
the sensed acceleration twice, one can keep track of the change in position. Combining the
datafromvisionandthe IM Uisaproblemofprobabilisticevidencefusionandcanbetackled
usingtechniques, suchas Kalmanfiltering, wehavestudiedelsewhereinthebook.
In the use of visual odometry (estimation of change in position), as in other problems
of odometry, there is the problem of drift, positional errors accumulating over time. The
solution for this is to use landmarks to provide absolute position fixes: as soon as the robot
passes a location in its internal map, it can adjust its estimate of its position appropriately.
Accuracies ontheorderofcentimeters havebeendemonstrated withthethesetechniques.
Thedriving examplemakesonepoint veryclear: foraspecific task, onedoes notneed
to recover all the information that, in principle, can be recovered from an image. One does
notneedtorecovertheexactshapeofeveryvehicle,solveforshape-from-textureonthegrass
surfaceadjacenttothefreeway,andsoon. Instead,avisionsystemshouldcomputejustwhat
isneeded toaccomplish thetask.
24.7 SUMMARY
Although perception appears to be an effortless activity for humans, it requires a significant
amountofsophisticated computation. Thegoalofvisionistoextractinformation neededfor
taskssuchasmanipulation, navigation, andobjectrecognition. The process of image formation is well understood in its geometric and physical as-
pects. Givenadescriptionofathree-dimensionalscene,wecaneasilyproduceapicture
ofitfromsomearbitrary cameraposition (thegraphicsproblem). Inverting theprocess
bygoingfromanimagetoadescription ofthesceneismoredifficult. To extract the visual information necessary for the tasks of manipulation, navigation,
and recognition, intermediate representations have to be constructed. Early vision
image-processing algorithms extract primitive features from the image, such as edges
andregions. There are various cues in the image that enable one to obtain t