state. At time t fo, the following partial information is known. Mt pressureA pressureB a ( VFS pAB M a flowA d dt . dt Figure 17.10 The constraint diagram for the 2-tank system. The constraints are in lined boxes . amtA AMAX, ? - tank A is full amtB 0, ? - tank A is empty The following propagation of constraints yields more information about the given state at time t fo (Kuipers, 1994). 1. Because of the corresponding value at (0,0), amtB.qmag 0 pressureB.qmag 0 2. Because the corresponding values at (0,0) and ( , ), we can conclude that amtA.qmag AMAX pressureA.qmag (0, ) Note that because of the way the quantity space has been constructed for pressureA, this is the best description we can get. A more detailed model would have something like maxPressureA, a corresponding value. Given that pressure has only two landmarks in our description, it can have only two corresponding values, and since the system is at neither, it follows that pressure must be somewhere between those landmark values. 3. An addition constraint has an implicit set of corresponding values at (0,0,0). If one of the constituents is not zero, and the other is zero then the sum must be nonzero. amtA.qmag AMAX a amtB.qmag 0 total.gmag (0, ) and likewise pressureA.qmag (0, ) A pressureB.qmag 0 pAB.qmag (0, ) 4. Constant values, by definition, have no direction of change (i.e. std) Constant(total) (Wa total 0 or rotal.qdir std 5. The corresponding values at (0,0) and ( , ) of the constraint for flowAB and pAB imply that since pAb is at neither, so must flowAB be. pAB.qmag (0, ) flowAB.qmag (0, ) 6. The derivative constraints can now determine the direction of change of amtA and amtB. flowAB (0,00) 4 ,,(amtA) a 4 ,,(amtB) or amtA.qdir dec amtB.qdir ine The known direction of change of amtA, amtB and total is consistent with the addition constraint. 7. The direction of changes propagate through monotonic functions amtA.qdir dec pressureA.qdir dec and amtB.qdir inc pressureB.qdir ine 8. Direction of chan