e mark the sentence as being
back in. In this way, the JTMS retains all the inference chains that it uses and need not
rederivesentences whenajustification becomesvalidagain.
In addition to handling the retraction of incorrect information, TM Ss can be used to
speed up the analysis of multiple hypothetical situations. Suppose, for example, that the
Romanian Olympic Committee is choosing sites for the swimming, athletics, and eques-
trian events at the 2048 Games to be held in Romania. For example, let the first hypothe-
sisbe Site(Swimming,Pitesti),Site(Athletics,Bucharest),and Site(Equestrian,Arad).
A great deal of reasoning must then be done to work out the logistical consequences and
hence the desirability of this selection. If we want to consider Site(Athletics,Sibiu) in-
stead, the TMS avoids the need to start again from scratch. Instead, we simply retract
Site(Athletics,Bucharest)andassert Site(Athletics,Sibiu)andthe TM Stakescareofthe
necessary revisions. Inference chains generated from the choice of Bucharest can be reused
with Sibiu,providedthattheconclusions arethesame.
462 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
Anassumption-based truthmaintenancesystem,or ATMS,makesthistypeofcontext-
ATMS
switching between hypothetical worldsparticularly efficient. Ina JTMS,themaintenance of
justifications allows you to move quickly from one state to another by making a few retrac-
tionsandassertions,butatanytimeonlyonestateisrepresented. An ATM Srepresentsallthe
states that have everbeen considered at the same time. Whereas a JTMS simply labels each
sentence as being in or out, an ATMS keeps track, for each sentence, of which assumptions
wouldcausethesentencetobetrue. Inotherwords,eachsentencehasalabelthatconsistsof
aset ofassumption sets. Thesentence holds justinthose cases inwhichalltheassumptions
inoneoftheassumption setshold.
Truth maintenance systems also provide a mechanism for generating explanations.
EXPLANATION
Technically, an explanation of a sentence P is a set 