tems and use them as tools for building new systems in new domains. 430 Artificial Intelligence TL TTT TE Four major problems facing current expert systems are: e Brittleness Because expert systems only have access to highly specific domain knowledge, they cannot fall back on more general knowledge when the need arises. For example, suppose that we make a mistake in entering data for a medical expert system, and we describe a patient who is 130 years old and weighs 40 pounds. Most systems would not be able to guess that we may have reversed the two fields since the values aren t very plausible. The CYC system, which we discussed in Section 10,3, represents one attempt to remedy this problem by providing a substrate of common sense knowledge on which specific expert systems can be built. Lack of Meta-Knowledge Expert systems do not have very sophisticated knowledge about their own operation. They typically cannot reason about their own scope and limitations, making it even more difficult to deal with the brittleness problem. Knowledge Acquisition -Despite the development of the tools that we described in Section 20.4, acquisition still remains a major bottleneck in applying expert systems technology to new domains. Validation Measuring the performance of an expert system is difficult because we do not know how to quantify the use of knowledge. Certainly it is impossible to present formal proofs of correctness for expert systems. One thing we can da is pit these systems against human experts on real-world problems, For example, MYCIN participated in a panel of experts in evaluating ten selected meningitis cases, scoring higher than any of its human competitors [Buchanan, 1982] There are many issues in the design and implementation of expert systems that we have not covered. For example, there has been a substantial amount of work done in the area of real-time expert systems [Laffey et al., 1988]. For more information on the whole area of expert systems and to get a be