or-
raine Prior,Greg Provan,William Rapaport,Deepak Ravichandran, Ioannis Refanidis,Philip
Resnik, Francesca Rossi, Sam Roweis, Richard Russell, Jonathan Schaeffer, Richard Scherl,
Hinrich Schuetze, Lars Schuster, Bart Selman, Soheil Shams, Stuart Shapiro, Jude Shav-
lik, Yoram Singer, Satinder Singh, Daniel Sleator, David Smith, Bryan So, Robert Sproull,
Lynn Stein, Larry Stephens, Andreas Stolcke, Paul Stradling, Devika Subramanian, Marek
Suchenek, Rich Sutton, Jonathan Tash, Austin Tate, Bas Terwijn, Olivier Teytaud, Michael
Thielscher, William Thompson, Sebastian Thrun, Eric Tiedemann, Mark Torrance, Randall
Upham,Paul Utgoff,Petervan Beek,Hal Varian,Paulina Varshavskaya, Sunil Vemuri,Vandi
Verma,Ubbo Visser,Jim Waldo,Toby Walsh,Bonnie Webber,Dan Weld,Michael Wellman,
Kamin Whitehouse, Michael Dean White, Brian Williams, David Wolfe, Jason Wolfe, Bill
Woods,Alden Wright,Jay Yagnik,Mark Yasuda,Richard Yen,Eliezer Yudkowsky,Weixiong
Zhang,Ming Zhao,Shlomo Zilberstein, andouresteemedcolleague Anonymous Reviewer.
About the Authors
Stuart Russell was born in 1962 in Portsmouth, England. He received his B.A. with first-
classhonours inphysics from Oxford University in1982, and his Ph.D.incomputerscience
from Stanfordin1986. Hethenjoinedthefacultyofthe Universityof Californiaat Berkeley,
where he is a professor of computer science, director of the Center for Intelligent Systems,
and holder of the Smith Zadeh Chair in Engineering. In 1990, he received the Presidential
Young Investigator Awardofthe National Science Foundation, andin1995hewascowinner
of the Computers and Thought Award. He was a 1996 Miller Professor of the University of
California and was appointed to a Chancellor s Professorship in 2000. In 1998, he gave the
Forsythe Memorial Lectures at Stanford University. He is a Fellow and former Executive
Council member of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence. He has published
over 100 papers on a wide range of topics in artificial intelligence. His 