to do next by looking only at the immediate consequences of its choice rather than by exhaustively exploring all the consequences. It shares with other local methods, such as the nearest neighbor heuristic described in Section 2.2.2, the advantage [Al H of being less combinatorially explosive than comparable global methods. But it s 2 also shares with other local methods a lack of a guarantee that it will be effective. F E Although it is true that the hill-climbing procedure itself looks only one move E D ahead and not any farther, that examination may in fact exploit an arbitrary amount D c of global information if that information is encoded in the heuristic function. c B Consider the blocks world problem shown in Fig. 3.1. Assume the same operators 5 A intitial state goal state (i.e., pick up one block and put it on the table; pick up one block and put iton " 7 ; another one) that were used in Section 2.3.1. Suppose we use the following Fig. 3.1. A Hill-Climbing heuristic function: Problem Local: Add one point for every block that is resting on the thing it is supposed to be resting on. Suhtract one point for every block that is sitting on the wrong thing. Using this function, the goal state has a score of 8. The initial state has a score of 4 (since it gets one point added for blocks C, D, E, F, G, and H and one point subtracted for blocks A and B). There is only one move from the initial state, namely to move block A to the table. That produces a state with a score of 6 (since now A s position causes a point to be added rather than subtracted). The hill-climbing procedure will accept that move. From the new state, there are three possible moves, leading to the three states shown in Fig. 3.2. These states have the scores: (a) 4, (6) 4, and (c) 4. Hill climbing will halt because all these states have lower scores than the current state. The process has reached a local maximum that is not the global maximum. The problem is that by purely local examination of suppo