formal syntax and semantics for such representations. We discuss related topics in some detail in Chapter 7 when We consider associative networks and conceptual graphs. Here, however, we are more interested in network representations which depict the degrees of belief of propositions and the causal dependencies that exist between them. Inferencing in a network amounts to propogating the probabilities of given and related information through the network to one or more conclusion nodes. Network representations for uncertain dependencies are further motivated by observations made earlier. If we wish to represent uncertain knowledge related to a set of propositional variables x ......,, by their joint distribution P(x...... it will require some 2" entries to store the distribution explicitly. Furthermore, a determination of any of the marginal probabilities x, requires summing P(x1. over the remaining n - I variables. Clearly, the time and storage requirements for such computations quickly become impractical. inferring with such large numbers of probabilities does not appear to model the human process either. On the contrary, humans tend to single out only a few propositions which are known to be causally linked when reasoning with uncertain beliefs. This metaphor leads quite naturally to a form of network representation. One useful way to portray the prohleni4main is with a network of nodes which represent propositional variables x,. conn&ted by arcs which represent causal Sec. 6.3 Possible World Representations 113 v/N Ni - Figure 6.1 f:rnnric of 8a t's,.nn K I ic' x. network. influences or dependencies among the nodes. The strengths of the influences ui quantified by conditional probabilities of each 'ariah Ie. For example. to represent causal relationships between the propositional variables . ....,x, as illustrated in Figure 6.1. one can write the joint probability P(t, .......,) by inspection as a product of (Chain) conditional probabilities .(..........) = P(Vj X