acing queens on an empty chessboard. The initial state of the problem is illustrated for N 6 in Figure 9.2. www www hw Ww tn 6 FIGURE 9.2 The six queen problem is to place the six queens on a 6 x 6 chessboard such that no queen attacks another. One possible move in the state space formulation could be to place a queen on an empty square. The task is then to place the N queens on the board. As one can imagine, this would needlessly generate a huge search space since the first queen can be placed in N2 ways, the second one in (N2 1) ways, and so on. An alternative state space formulation recognizes the constraint that no two queens can be on the same row or the same column. This allows us to describe the state as a vector of N values representing columns, with the index being identified with a queen. For example, the vector a, c, f, b, e, d represents a state in which the first queen is on column a, the second one on column c, and so on. It is implicit in the representation that the first queen is on row 1, the second on row 2, and so on. As described in Chapter 3, one can search in the solution space by exploring permutations of the above vector. The N-queens problem is a natural binary CSP because the constraints are on the placement of each pair of queens. We can formulate it as a set variables Q, ..., Qy with the domains as the column identifiers. In our example, the columns are labelled with the letters of the English alphabet, as is the norm in chess literature. See Exercise 2 for an alternate notation that allows us to express the constraints in intensional form. The CSP for a 4-queen problem is given below (the 6-queen problem is left as an exercise), Problem CSP3 X Qy, Qo, Qs, Qu D Dy, D2, D3, D4 where D, Dy Ds D4 a, b, , dh C Cx 15 jks 4 where Sx Q;, Q, and with, R42 Rog Raq a, c , a, d , b, d , c, a d, a , d, b R13 Req a, b , a, d , b, a , b, c , c, b , c, d , d, a , d, c R14 a, b , a, c , b, a , b, c b, d , c, a , c, b , c, d , d, b , d, c The most straigh