b initio, Instead, if we analyze our problems carefully and sort our problem-solving methods by the kinds of problems for which they are suitable, we will be able to bring to each new problem much of what we have learned from solving other, similar problems. 2.4 PRODUCTION SYSTEM CHARACTERISTICS We have just examined a set of characteristics that distinguish various classes of problems. We have also argued that production systems are a good way to describe the operations that can be performed in a search for a solution to a problem. Two questions we might reasonably ask at this point are: 1. Can production systems, like problems, be described by a set of characteristics that shed some light oa how they can easily be implemented? 2. If so, what relationships are there between problem types and the types of production systems best suited to solving the problems? The answer to the first question is yes. Consider the following definitions of classes of production systems. A monotonic production system is a production system in which the application of a rule never prevents the later application of another rule that could also have been applied at the time the first rule was selected. A nonmonotonic production system is one in which this is not true. A partially commutative production system is a production system with the property that if the application of a particular sequence of rules transforms state x into state y, then any permutation of those rules that is allowable (i.e., each rule s preconditions are satisfied when it is applied) also transforms state x into state y. A commutative production system is a production system that is both monotonic and partially commutative.* This corresponds to the definition of a commutative production system given in Nilsson [1980]. 44 Artificial Intelligence HORE NR NTRED SORE TPN IEA: AN AS The significance of these categories of production systems lies in the relationship between the categories and appropriate implementation s