cluding this world itself, things that persist, persist and things that don't, don t (Grand, 2001). We can say that life is made up of forms that persist. We can also say that the goal of life is persistence, that is, to exist, or to live. Whichever way we look at it, life forms or living creatures are manifestations of different strategies to persist. Each species of life forms represents a strategy in which the individuals strive to persist. All living creatures have finite lifespans, but life itself continues as individuals beget offspring, which carry forward the strategy to live. Persistence of living creatures requires energy, and different mechanisms have evolved to consume resources to generate the energy that sustains life. Plants feed on the energy in sunlight and nutrients in the soil; rabbits, cows and goats eat the plants; lions, foxes and tigers eat the rabbits, cows and the goats. Living creatures die naturally too, and are consumed by bacteria, which in turn produce the nutrients for plants. Life exists in an ecosystem, in which a multitude of individuals from different species exist in a dynamic equilibrium (see Figure 4.8). SV Grasshopper eet ae a . a (in Grass Wildflowers Trees Carrot - ria ae, Fi Fungi FIGURE 4.8 A small fragment of the vast ecosystem. The natural world contains millions of species interacting with each other. Arrows depict a positive influence of the population of one species on another. Individuals may be born or may die, but life goes on. Even the extinction of a species or two does not stop this juggernaut. Once in a while though, some catastrophic event does occur that wipes out a part of the ecosystem and radically shifts the equilibrium, for example the one that happened about 65 million years ago wiped out the dinosaurs on Earth and created the opportunity for mammals to come to the fore. Each species has its own strategy to live and consume resources, and when it can do that successfully, it survives. A species survives 