 the sentence easily. One could figure out whether the child Amit wants to eat an apple, or whether it has eaten one, or whether some third person called Amit has eaten one. One of the theories that Schank put forward is that pragmatic and semantic knowledge in fact helps the process of language understanding, and do not follow a parsing stage. This is particularly important because natural languages by themselves tend to be richly ambiguous. Words can assume different syntactic categories leading to different valid syntactic structures of the sentences they occur in. Perhaps this is best illustrated by the celebrated example Time flies like an arrow (Kuno and Oettinger, 1962). Most human beings arrive at one (implicit) parse tree without any hesitation. But a program written on the IBM 7090 computer in the early sixties armed with 3000 grammatical rules, and an unprejudiced world view, could not decide between competing meanings and parse trees. Is time a verb referring to the act of timing flies in which case one is advised to follow the procedure for timing arrows, or is it an adjective describing a particular kind of flies that like an arrow? When we hear the sentence we move quickly into a top down mode choosing time to be a noun and building the rest of the meaning around it. Obviously, this has the advantage of speed, and is an approach that natural language understanding programs should look at too. This is not to say that syntax has no role to play. If one were to read about the Charlie Chaplin film, The Gold Rush, in which the tramp ate the shoe , then heuristics that will look for an edible object to fill the object slot in the INGEST conceptualization will fail. It is only the grammar rules that force us to accept the fact that the shoe was in fact eaten. Or one could fill in the slot as a last resort wherk i risentense is finished, and perhaps flag a warning. Another example that illustrates the utility of grammar rules is the sentence saw,th Graa Canyo