mumvalue,wealwaysgetan
admissible heuristic. So max
i
COST(P
i
) is admissible, and sometimes it is exactly correct:
it could be that P serendipitously achieves all the G . But in most cases, in practice the
1 i
estimateistoolow. Couldwesumthecostsinstead? Formanyproblemsthatisareasonable
estimate,butitisnotadmissible. Thebestcaseiswhenwecandeterminethat G and G are
i j
independent. Iftheeffectsof P leaveallthepreconditions andgoalsof P unchanged, then
i j
theestimate COST(P
i
) COST(P
j
)isadmissible, andmoreaccuratethanthemaxestimate.
Weshowin Section10.3.1thatplanning graphscanhelpprovidebetterheuristic estimates.
Itisclearthat thereisgreat potential forcutting downthe search space byforming ab-
stractions. The trick is choosing the right abstractions and using them in a way that makes
thetotalcost defininganabstraction, doinganabstractsearch,andmappingtheabstraction
back to the original problem less than the cost of solving the original problem. The tech-
Section10.3. Planning Graphs 379
niques of pattern databases from Section 3.6.3 can be useful, because the cost of creating
thepatterndatabase canbeamortizedovermultipleproblem instances.
Anexampleofasystemthatmakesuseofeffectiveheuristicsis FF,or FASTFORWARD
(Hoffmann, 2005), a forward state-space searcher that uses the ignore-delete-lists heuristic,
estimating the heuristic with the help of a planning graph (see Section 10.3). FF then uses
hill-climbing search (modifiedtokeeptrack oftheplan)withtheheuristic tofindasolution.
Whenithitsaplateauorlocalmaximum whennoactionleadstoastatewithbetterheuristic
score then FF uses iterative deepening search until it finds a state that is better, or it gives
upandrestartshill-climbing.
10.3 PLANNING GRAPHS
All of the heuristics we have suggested can suffer from inaccuracies. This section shows
how a special data structure called a planning graph can be used to give better heuristic
PLANNINGGRAPH
estimates. These heuristics can be applied to any of the search techniques we