e. The goal of this book has been to say enough about the use of knowledge in problem-solving programs to enable you to build one. Go do it. And have fun. EXERCISES fhe Cia rave as Heniethinianat Cea ohm 1. What do you think is the main result to come out of AI research in the last 20 years? Give a brief justification of your answer. . Why are table-driven programs so important in AI? . What is the role of matching in AI programs? Give several examples of its use. . How do the topics of knowledge representation and problem-solving techniques interact with each other? Give examples. 5. Dreyfus [1972] presents a criticism of Al in which it is argued that AI is not possible. Read through it, and using the material presented in this book, refute the arguments. 6. Using what you have leamed in this book, comment briefly on each line below. Feel free to augment your answer with diagrams or illustrations. Question. How many AI people does it take to change a lightbulb? Answer. At least 67. The Problem Space Group (5) One to define the goal state One to define the operators One to describe the universal problem solver One to hack the production system One to indicate about how it is a model of human lightbulb-changing behavior The Logical Formalism Group (12) One to figure out how to describe lightbulb changing in predicate logic One to show the adequacy of predicate logic One to show the inadequacy of predicate logic One to show that lightbulb logic is nonmonotonic One to show that it isn t nonmonotonic One to incorporate nonmonotonicity into predicate logic One to determine the bindings for the variables One to show the completeness of the solution One to show the consistency of the solution One to hack a theorem prover for lightbulb resolution Cue to indicate how it is a description of human lightbulb-changing behavior hw WNh Conclusion 531 TTT TIN TTT TTT ANNE TREN EEE TEES One to call the electrician The Statistical Group (1) One to point out that, in the real world, a