e current problem state and information needed by the knowledge sources (input data, partial solutions, control data, alternatives, final solutions). The knowledge sources make changes to the blackboard data that incrementally lead to a solution. Communication and interaction between the knowledge sources takes place solely through the blackboard. 3. Control information may be contained within the sources, on the blackboard. or possibly in a separate module. (There is no actual control unit specified as Blackboard Knowledge sources Control information Figure 15.6 Components of blackboard systems. 342 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 part of a blackboard system.) The control knowledge monitors the changes to the blackboad and determines what the immediate focus of attention should be in solving the problem. H. Penny Nil (1986a) has aptly described the blackboard problem solving .trategy through the following analogy. Imagine a room with a large blackboard on which a group of experts are piecing together a jigsaw puzzle. Each of the experts has some special knowledge about solvhnv puzzles (e.g.. a border expert, a shape expert, a color expert. etc.). Each member examines his or her pieces and decides if they will fit into the partially completed puzzle. Those members having appropriate pieces go up to the blackboard and update the evolving solution. The whole puzzle can be solved in complete silence with no direct communication among members of the group. Each person is self-activating. knowing when he or she can contribute to the solution. The solution evolves in this incremental way with each expert contributing dynamically on an opportunistic basis, that is, as the opportunity to contribute to the solution arises. The objects on the blackboard are hierarchically organized into levels which facilitate analysis and solution. Information from one level serves as input to a set ot knnns ledge sources. The sources modify the knowledge and place it on the same or dn