rids to changes in the environment. Autonomy Controls its own actions. Goal-orientation Not just reactive; its actions are oriented to achieving an objective which defines the reason why it exists. z Temporally continuous . Runs as a cantinuously process Communicative and Cooperative Interacts with other agents, maybe even human beings to achieve its (and/or other s) goals. Knowledge and Learning Experience changes its behavior and perhaps makes it adapt. Mobility Capable of migrating to other machines and executing tasks. Character Possess some kind of a persanality and exhibits emotions. An agent thus could be a system situated in an environment that runs continuously, senses this environment, processes and acts on it, based on some defined goals, thereby changing the environment as also its ways of acting on it with the passage of time. Characteristics like mobility and character are however not included in this definition but could be treated as enhanced features of an agent. As for the communicative behavior, we may assume that the environment has other agents and human beings with which it interacts. In more evolved agents the so called defined goals may also evolve. The definition at least throws the printer driver and the calculator off the agents list as they do not seem to change their behavior over a period of time nor do such programs necessarily run continuously. 518 Artificial Intelligence RR CAR RAL SESENAACNAMNASTOMNCSETOCOE As pointed out, discussing and debating over the numerous definitions available may be all the more confusing. At the moment we tend to agree that the definition of an agent is not all that complete and remains a bit fuzzy. We should therefore be cautious and take a second and serious look at anything that we feel is being termed an agent. A Chimera Agent A Chimera agent has basically two components a socket and a handler. The former works on the well known Windows sockets (Winsock) and is used by the agents to communicate amongs