 what cards the dummy will play. Thirteen tricks are played out after that, the winner of each trick starting the next trick. The objective of the declarer is to fulfil the contract and perhaps win more tricks, and objective of the other side, known as defenders, is to prevent her from doing so. The degree to which they succeed in their objectives determines their score on that deal. In tournament play, this score is compared with the other players on the same deal, and that decides the winners and the losers in a bridge event. It is not the side which Lady Luck favours with good cards, and consequently achievable good contracts. The Auction The first phase of a Bridge deal is the auction. The auction is a sequence of bids by players in a clockwise order, according to the rules described above. It starts with the player who has dealt the cards and ends when three players pass in succession. The contract becomes the last bid from the set BIDS in the auction, with the declarer being the first player in that side who named that suit (or no trumps). Ostensibly, the meaning of each bid is that the player is bidding for a certain contract. However, the auction in a typical game is not so straightforward. This is because, a player can only bid by looking at her cards, but is bidding for the side which includes her partner as well. It is the combined tricks won by the side that go towards fulfilling the contract. It would help tremendously if a player knew her partner s, and opponents cards, but that is not the case. Since it is only the ast bid from the set BIDS that finally determines the contract, the earlier bids need not be used to simply compete for a contract. This is specially so because there is a premium on bidding certain high contracts, known as games and slams, and players would like to bid them when the combined strength of the cards permits it. Therefore, most teams devise bidding systems, which define an alternate semantics of bids apart from the legal one b