ntake, exercise, andmetabolism determine weightgainandloss.
d. Baldnessisdetermined bythebaldness (orlackthereof)of one smaternalgrandfather.
19.3 Wouldaprobabilistic versionofdeterminations beuseful? Suggestadefinition.
19.4 Fill in the missing values for the clauses C or C (or both) in the following sets of
1 2
clauses, giventhat C istheresolventof C and C :
1 2
a. C True P(A,B),C P(x,y) Q(x,y),C ??.
1 2
b. C True P(A,B),C ??,C ??.
1 2
c. C P(x,y) P(x,f(y)),C ??,C ??.
1 2
Ifthereismorethanonepossiblesolution,provideoneexampleofeachdifferentkind.
19.5 Suppose one writes a logic program that carries out a resolution inference step. That
is, let Resolve(c ,c ,c) succeed if c is the result of resolving c and c . Normally, Resolve
1 2 1 2
would be used as part of a theorem prover by calling it with c and c instantiated to par-
1 2
ticular clauses, thereby generating the resolvent c. Now suppose instead that we call it with
c instantiated and c and c uninstantiated. Will this succeed in generating the appropriate
1 2
results of an inverse resolution step? Would you need any special modifications to the logic
programming systemforthistowork?
19.6 Suppose that FOIL is considering adding a literal to a clause using a binary predicate
P andthatpreviousliterals(including theheadoftheclause)containfivedifferentvariables.
a. Howmanyfunctionallydifferentliteralscanbegenerated? Twoliteralsarefunctionally
identicaliftheydifferonlyinthenamesofthenewvariablesthattheycontain.
b. Can you find a general formula for the number of different literals with a predicate of
arityrwhenthereare nvariables previously used?
c. Whydoes FOIL notallowliteralsthatcontainnopreviously usedvariables?
19.7 Usingthedatafromthefamilytreein Figure19.11,orasubsetthereof,applythe FOIL
algorithm tolearnadefinition forthe Ancestor predicate.
20
LEARNING
PROBABILISTIC MODELS
Inwhichweviewlearning asaformofuncertain reasoning fromobservations.
Chapter13pointedouttheprevalenceofuncertaintyinrealenvironments. Agen