ins are classified into various groups by biologists, based on their structure and function. Protein sequence can be obtained quickly once the genome sequence is known. On the contrary, obtaining protein structure requires rigorous experimental set-up and hence a relatively small number of structures is available, resulting in a wide gap between number of proteins with known sequence and those with known structure. The sequence information provides vital clues for protein classification. In this problem, we will design a learning algorithm based on NB classifier to classify proteins into one of the k groups. Thus, this is an instance of a multiclass classification problem. Let D be the database of known protein sequences. Let fy, fo, ..., f, be k classes or groups of proteins. Note that the proteins are not uniformly distributed across these k classes, i.e. some classes contain more proteins than other. They represent selection bias that the biologists have for certain classes of proteins. The first step is to represent each protein with a set of appropriate features. Let each protein d D be represented with the following attributes or features: 1. Length of protein y. 2. Percentage of each amino acid in d. There is one such feature per amino acid and hence in all there are twenty such features. Thus, each protein is represented with 21 features. All these features are continuous in nature, that is, their values are real numbers between 0 and 1. Modelling Let xq ), xq ),..., xq (29) be the features corresponding to the frequencies of amino acids of protein d. These features sum up to 1. 220.1 Xq 1. Let xq(2") be the feature corresponding to the length of the protein d. Clearly, the length feature is independent of all other features. 1. We model distribution of amino acids in a protein sequence, using a multinomial distribution. 2. We model length of proteins using a Gaussian distribution with parameters mean p and standard deviation o. Learning Estimate class prior