formation overany period of time. Onmobile robots,
shaftdecoders thatreportwheelrevolutions canbeusedfor odometry themeasurementof
ODOMETRY
distance traveled. Unfortunately, wheels tend to drift and slip, so odometry is accurate only
over short distances. External forces, such as the current for AU Vs and the wind for UA Vs,
increase positional uncertainty. Inertial sensors, such as gyroscopes, rely on the resistance
INERTIALSENSOR
ofmasstothechangeofvelocity. Theycanhelpreduceuncertainty.
Otherimportant aspects of robot state are measured by force sensors and torque sen-
FORCESENSOR
sors. Theseareindispensablewhenrobotshandlefragileobjectsorobjectswhoseexactshape
TORQUESENSOR
and location is unknown. Imagine aone-ton robotic manipulator screwing in alight bulb. It
would be all too easy to apply too much force and break the bulb. Force sensors allow the
robottosensehowharditisgripping thebulb, andtorquesensors allowittosensehowhard
it is turning. Good sensors can measure forces in all three translational and three rotational
directions. Theydothisatafrequency ofseveralhundred timesasecond, sothatarobotcan
quicklydetectunexpected forcesandcorrect itsactionsbeforeitbreaksalightbulb.
25.2.2 Effectors
Effectors are the means by which robots move and change the shape of their bodies. To
understand thedesign ofeffectors, itwillhelptotalkaboutmotionandshapeintheabstract,
DEGREEOF using the concept of a degree of freedom (DOF)We count one degree of freedom for each
FREEDOM
independentdirectioninwhicharobot,oroneofitseffectors,canmove. Forexample,arigid
mobile robot such as an AUV has six degrees of freedom, three for its (x,y,z) location in
space and three for its angular orientation, known as yaw, roll, and pitch. These six degrees
definethekinematicstate2 orposeoftherobot. Thedynamicstateofarobotincludesthese
KINEMATICSTATE
sixplusanadditionalsixdimensionsfortherateofchangeofeachkinematicdimension,that
POSE
is,theirvelocities.
DYNAMICSTATE
Fornonrigidbodies,thereareadditi