ation A memory is stored as a pattern of activation across a set of processing elements. Furthermore, memories can be superimposed on one another; different memories are represented by different patterns over the same set of processing elements. Distributed. Asynchronous Control Eacb processing element makes decisions based only on its own local situation. All these loca! actions add up to a global solution. Content-Addressable Memory -A number of patterns can be stored in a net work. To retrieve a pattern, we need only specify a portion of it. The network automatically finds the closest match. Fault Tolerance If a few processing elements misbehave or fail completely, the network will still function properly. How are these features achieved? A simple Hopfield net is shown in Fig. 18.1. Processing elements, or units, are always in one of two states, active or inactive. In the figure, units colored black are active and units colored white are inactive. Units are connected to each other with weighted, symmetric connections. A positively weighted connection indicates that the two units tend to activate each other. A negative connection allows an active unit to deactivate a neighboring unit. The network operates as follows. A random unit is chosen. If any of its Fig. 18.1 A Simple Hopfield neighbors are active, the unit computes the sum of the weights on the connections Network to those active neighbors. If the sum is positive, the unit becomes active, otherwise it becomes inactive. Another random unit is chosen, and the process repeats until the network reaches a stable state, i-e., until no more units can change state. This process is called parallel relaxation. If the network starts in the state shown in Fig. 18.1, the unit in the lower left corner will tend to activate the unit above it. This unit. in turn. will attempt to activate the unit above ir, but the inhibitory connection from the upper-right unit will foil this attempt. and so on. This network has only four 