 the commitment that the remainder must be assigned to the complement of {Flu,Cold, Pneu}. Having defined m, we can now define Bel(p) for a set p as the sum of the values of m for p and for all of its subsets. Thus Be/(p) is our overall belief that the correct answer lies somewhere in the set p. In order to be able to use m (and thus Bel and P/) in reasoning programs, we need to define functions that enable us to combine m s that arise from multiple sources of evidence. Recall that in our discussion of CF s, we considered three combination scenarios, which we illustrated in Fig. 8.1. When we use Dempster-Shafer theory, on the other hand, we do not need an explicit combining function for the scenario in Fig. 8.1(b) since we have that capability already in our ability to assign a value of m to a set of hypotheses. But we do need a mechanism for performing the combinations of scenarios (a) and (c). Dempster s rule of combination serves both these functions. It allows us to combine any two belief functions (whether they represent multiple sources of evidence for a single hypothesis or multiple sources of evidence for different hypotheses), Suppose we are given two belief functions m, and my, Let X be the set of subsets of @ to which m, assigns a nonzero value and let Y be the corresponding set for m,. We define the combination m, of m, and m, to be Dynan MX) (8) 1- ) xavce MX) m(Y) m3(Z) = Statistical Reasoning 183 satanic ances REARS IRENE This gives us a new belief function that we can apply to any subset Z of @. We can describe what this formula is doing by looking first at the simple case in which all ways of intersecting elements of X and elements of Y generate nonempty sets, For example, suppose m, corresponds to our belief after observing fever: { Flu, Cold, Pneu} (0.6) oe (0.4) Suppose m, corresponds to our belief after observing a runny nose: {All, Flu, Cold} (0.8) () (0.2) Then we can compute their combination m, using the following table (in which we further 