nner, perhaps a study of cognition will lead us to thinking machines, even though they may not think like us. In the end the way we humans judge intelligence is how the entity interacts with us, from our observation of the entity's behaviour. The mechanism behind intelligence itself is hidden from us. Just like the chemist makes an intelligent guess about the structure of a compound by looking at how it interacts with other compounds; or the early pioneers in genetics made inferences about the genotype by the way the phenotype manifests itself so do we judge the intelligence of other entities by its behaviour. Alan Turing prescribed in his imitation game that it is enough if one is convinced via (textual) interaction to decide whether the entity is intelligent or not. In the enterprise of building intelligent systems, history has shown that the external manifestations have always shown up earlier than the mechanisms that are meant to have produced those manifestations. Pamela McCorduck (1973) writes that humans in Medieval Europe were quick to recognize a nodding head on a figurine as being a display of intelligent behaviour. The chess playing Turk displayed by Wolfgang von Kempelen in 1770 was received with awe in the courts of Europe. In Japan, the digital pet? Tamagotchi received as much attention and attachment by their owners as any physical living pet would. Feigenbaum s ELISA could converse with many a seasoned adult. The recent robotic advances like Aibo from Sony, Kismet at MIT, and Kenshiro, the Japanese humanoid robot, have all been received with enthusiasm. John Laird of the University of Michigan has made a call for Al to provide the intelligence to the sophisticated graphics avatars seen in computer games, to make them really intelligent. Layers It has been observed by many people that meaning and understanding is a layered process. In his ode to Darwin and Turing, Dennett (2012) introduces the notion of sorta (a kind of sort of) that can be used to de