ecomplementary, notcompeting. Asoccurredwith
the separation of AI and cognitive science, modern neural network research has bifurcated
into two fields, one concerned with creating effective network architectures and algorithms
and understanding theirmathematical properties, the other concerned withcareful modeling
oftheempiricalproperties ofactualneuronsandensembles ofneurons.
1.3.8 AIadopts thescientific method (1987 present)
Recent years have seen a revolution in both the content and the methodology of work in
artificialintelligence.14 Itisnowmorecommontobuild onexisting theories thantopropose
brand-new ones, to base claims on rigorous theorems or hard experimental evidence rather
thanonintuition, andtoshowrelevance toreal-world applications ratherthantoyexamples.
AIwasfoundedinpartasarebellionagainstthelimitationsofexistingfieldslikecontrol
theoryandstatistics, butnowitisembracingthosefields. As David Mc Allester(1998)putit:
In the early period of AI it seemed plausible that new forms of symbolic computation,
e.g.,framesandsemanticnetworks,mademuchofclassicaltheoryobsolete. Thisledto
a formof isolationism in which AI became largelyseparatedfromthe rest of computer
science. This isolationism is currently being abandoned. There is a recognition that
machinelearningshouldnotbeisolatedfrominformationtheory,thatuncertainreasoning
shouldnotbeisolatedfromstochasticmodeling,thatsearchshouldnotbeisolatedfrom
classical optimizationand control, and that automated reasoning should not be isolated
fromformalmethodsandstaticanalysis.
In terms of methodology, AI has finally come firmly under the scientific method. To be ac-
cepted,hypothesesmustbesubjectedtorigorousempirical experiments,andtheresultsmust
be analyzed statistically for their importance (Cohen, 1995). It is now possible to replicate
experiments byusingsharedrepositories oftestdataandcode.
The field of speech recognition illustrates the pattern. In the 1970s, a wide variety of
different architectures and approaches