ly stand for sets of statements asserting that the corresponding components are broken. We denote those statements by identifying the components for the sake of brevity. 18 One could also think of exploring the value Fo 12 in our example as taking a second measurement as described in (Forbus and de Kleer, 1992). 19 Or Ockham s razor after William of Ockham (c. 1285-1349), Munich citizen, that refers to distinguishing between two theories either by shaving away unnecessary assumptions or cutting apart two similar theories. - Wikipedia, Occam s razor. 20 Interestingly, a model based diagnosis tool named RAZ R is offered by OCC M Software GmbH by two Munich citizens (see http: www.occm.de ). 21 For example, a dam or a reservoir. 22 The published system only looks at minimal sets of components. If one were to distinguish between P-IN failing by being blocked and by being perforated, then P-IN, O would also appear as a candidate diagnosis. 23 Doyle observes that the name Truth Maintenance is probably a misnomer, but keeps it in order to be consistent with historical usage. Other names that have been suggested are Reason Maintenance and Consistency Maintenance. 24 This is similar to the notion of nogood used in solving constraint satisfaction problems, where a set of variables along with their tentative assignments may be marked as a nogood (see Chapter 9). 25 A well known Indian parliamentarian had said that politics is the art of managing contradictions ! (de Kleer, 1986) distinguishes between an assumption A and its datum a and represents the ATMS node as a, A , (A) . 27 The following quote, and some variations of it, is attributed to the science fiction writer Arthur C Clarke (1917-2 8) Sometimes think we're alone in the universe, and sometimes think we re not. In either case, the idea is quite staggering. http: explorebiodiversity.com Mexico Pages Habitats species.htm, accessed May 2012. The reader may compare this with a definition of a constraint satisfaction probl