IIT Bombay guesthouse. The MEA strategy attempts to identify the largest difference between the current state and the desired state, and looks for a suitable operator to reduce that difference. Say the operator is flyToMumbai. The problem solver now has to solve two new problems: One, to reach the Chennai airport, and the other to reach the guesthouse from the Mumbai? airport. In this way, the problem solver works into the details of the solution. We discuss the MEA strategy again in Chapter 7. The idea of macro operators was made more explicit by Richard Korf (1985) and can be illustrated by the way we typically solve the Rubik s cube. Remember that the problem with the Rubik s cube is that it is very difficult to devise a heuristic function that will monotonically drive the search to the solution. Instead, if we were to plot the heuristic function for an expert human solver (see Figure 3.15), we find that there are stages in the solution where the heuristic values peaks and then it gets worse temporarily before attaining a better peak (in the figure, the heuristic function goes through better and better local minima). The macro operators proposed by Korf, package the moves between two peaks into an operator. The problem solver then has a set of macro operators to work with, and blindly applies each operator without looking at the heuristic value in between. The way solve the cube, for example, is in the following macro steps: Get the top cross in place. Get the top layer in place. Get the middle layer in place. Get the bottom corner cubelets in position. Get the cubelets in correct orientation. Get the bottom cross in place. , myself, fill in the moves for each operator blindly, as taught to me by a friend a long time ago. The operators learnt were themselves made up of generic operators that could be easily selected. am essentially using a knowledge based approach, not caring to reinvent the wheel . The interesting idea that Korf introduced was in devising search