dge, from this perspective, is the carry-forward from the past to the future. Memory is the seat of knowledge. FIGURE 15.2 The Rubik s cube. One can identify three different ontological forms of knowledge. The first is direct experience which one can symbolically store in the form of episodes. We can call each of these stored experiences a case. As many episodes are encountered over a period of time, two more compact forms of knowledge emerge by a process of abstraction and generalization. The first is semantic in nature, which we can call a model. A model is an abstraction of reality that can be used to simulate events in the real world. A model is an embodiment of how things work . The second is operational in nature, or heuristic knowledge, often represented as rules. Heuristic rules may suggest what to do in a situation, for example if one is putting on weight, one should exercise more ; or what to expect in the domain, for example, if the dog is barking, there may be someone about to knock on the door . There can be other compact forms of knowledge as described in machine learning literature (Mitchell, 1997), for example decision trees, but they are variations on the theme. Figure 15.4 shows the relation between the three forms of knowledge, cases, rules, and models. i i UJ ! i t a i .. ( as on Cr aes Nb ra 7 oO Pare mn! Oona Voge a ss. O) Ne Memory ; SL ' PAST FUTURE i 1 i 1 1 L FIGURE 15.3 Knowledge is the carry-forward from the past to the future. Heuristic Rules Generalisation and Domain Analysis and Modularisation Laws of Nature Raw Experience FIGURE 15.4 Models and rules are drawn from raw experience. A case based system organizes episodes of raw experience. Knowledge can be a carry-forward from the past to the future when there are things that do not change from the past to the future. Then a sentient agent may observe something, remember it, and exploit it in the future. Price ( fl Ak Time FIGURE 15.5 Notion of support is memory based. Another interesti