at AI bas become. In particular, we have tried to present both the theoretical foundations of AJ and an indication of the ways that current techniques can be used in application programs. As a result of this effort, the book has grown. It is probably no longer possible to cover everything in a single semester. Because of this, we bave structured the book so that an instructor can choose from a variety of paths through the chapters. The book is divided into three parts: Part I. Problems and Search. Part II. Knowledge Representation. Part IN, Advanced Topics. Part I introduces AI by examining the nature of the difficult problems that AI seeks to solve. It then develops the theory and practice of heuristic search, providing detailed algorithms for standard search methods, including best-first search, hill climbing, simulated annealing, means-ends analysis, and constraint satisfaction. The last thirty years of AI have demonstrated that intelligence requires more than the ability to reason. It also requires a great deal of knowledge about the world. So Part II explores a variety of methods for encoding knowledge in computer systems. These methods include predicate logic, production rules, semantic networks, frames, and scripts. There are also chapters on both symbolic and numeric techniques for reasoning under uncertainty. In addition, we present some very specific frameworks in which particular commitments to a set of representational primitives are made. Parts I and f H should be covered in any basic course in AI. They provide the foundation for the advanced topics and applications that are presented in Part JIJ. While the chapters in Parts I and II should be covered in order since they build on each other, the chapters in Part III are, for the most part, independent and can be covered in almost any combination, depending on the goals of a particular course. The topics that are covered include: game playing, planning, understanding, natural language processing (which d