eech production was localized to the
portion of the left hemisphere now called Broca s area.6 By that time, it was known that
the brain consisted of nerve cells, or neurons, but it was not until 1873 that Camillo Golgi
NEURON
(1843 1926) developed a staining technique allowing the observation of individual neurons
in the brain (see Figure 1.2). This technique was used by Santiago Ramon y Cajal (1852 1934)inhispioneering studiesofthebrain sneuronalstructures.7 Nicolas Rashevsky(1936,
1938)wasthefirsttoapplymathematical modelstothestudyofthenervous sytem.
5 Sincethen,ithasbeendiscoveredthatthetreeshrew(Scandentia)hasahigherratioofbraintobodymass.
6 Manycite Alexander Hood(1824)asapossiblepriorsource.
7 Golgipersistedinhisbeliefthatthebrain sfunctionswerecarriedoutprimarilyinacontinuousmediumin
whichneuronswereembedded, whereas Cajalpropounded the neuronal doctrine. Thetwosharedthe Nobel
prizein1906butgavemutuallyantagonisticacceptancespeeches.
Section1.2. The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence 11
Axonal arborization
Axon from another cell
Synapse
Dendrite Axon
Nucleus
Synapses
Cell body or Soma
Figure 1.2 The parts of a nerve cell or neuron. Each neuron consists of a cell body,
or soma, that contains a cell nucleus. Branching out from the cell body are a number of
fiberscalleddendritesanda single longfibercalled the axon. Theaxonstretchesoutfora
long distance, much longer than the scale in this diagram indicates. Typically, an axon is
1cmlong(100timesthediameterofthecellbody),butcanreachupto1meter. Aneuron
makesconnectionswith10to100,000otherneuronsatjunctionscalledsynapses.Signalsare
propagatedfrom neuronto neuronby a complicated electrochemicalreaction. The signals
controlbrainactivityintheshorttermandalsoenablelong-termchangesintheconnectivity
ofneurons. Thesemechanismsarethoughttoformthebasisforlearninginthebrain. Most
informationprocessinggoesoninthecerebralcortex,theouterlayerofthebrain. Thebasic
organizationalunit appears to be a column of tissue about0.5 m