with the peacocks. {b) Fig. 15.17 Two CD Interpretations of a Sentence The problem is that the simple check for the property ANIMATE is not sufficient to determine acceptability as an additional actor of a PTRANS. Additional knowledge is necessary. Some more knowledge can be inserted within the framework we have described for a conceptual processor. But to do a very good job of producing correct semantic interpretations of sentences requires knowledge of the larger context in which the sentence appears. Techniques for exploiting such knowledge are discussed in the next section. 15.3.4 Approximately Compositional Semantic Interpretation The final approach to semantics that we consider here is one in which syntactic parsing and semantic interpretation are treated as separate steps, although they must mirror each other in well-defined ways. This is the approach to semantics that we looked at briefly in Section 15.1.1 when we worked through the example sentence J want to print Bill s .init file. If a strictly syntactic parse of a sentence has been produced then a straightforward way to generate a semantic interpretation is the following: 1. Look up each word in a lexicon that contains one or more definitions for the word, each stated in terms of the chosen target representation. These definitions must describe how the idea that corresponds to the word is to be represented, and they may also describe how the idea represented by this word may combine with the ideas represented by other words in the sentence. 2. Use the structure information contained in the output of the parser to provide additional constraints, beyond those extracted from the lexicon, on the way individual words may combine to form larger meaning units. " We have already discussed the first of these steps (in Section 15.3). In the rest of this section, we discuss the second. Montague Semantics Recall that we argued in Section 15.1.1 that the reason syntactic parsing was a good idea was that it produces s