em of determining the truth value of fluents over different instances of time. What is true at one moment may be false at another time. The following definitions are short forms for the equivalent formulas given after their descriptions. Clipped(t,, f, t2) A fluent f that was true is made false sometime after or at time pointt, and before tz. This is equivalent to the longer formula, de, t(Happens(e, t) A (t; st t2) A Terminates(e, f, t)) Declipped(t,, f, t2) A fluent f that was false is made true sometime after or at time point t, and before tf. This is equivalent to the longer formula, de, t(Happens(e, t) A (t; t t2) a Initiates(e, f, t)) PersistsBetween(t,, f, 2) The fluent fis not released from the commonsense law of inertia after time point t, and up to and including time point t . That is, it retains its truth value during the interval. This is a short form for, 135 t(ReleasedAt(f, t) A (ty ts t)) 13.5.1 Effect of Events on Fluents When an event happens that initiates a fluent, then the fluent becomes true. We make a simplifying assumption in the formulas below that the effect on the fluent is felt at the very moment the event happens. If one were to talk about the fluent being true at a later point one would need to add that the fluent was not Clipped in the interim period. EC, (Happens(e, t) A Initiates(e, f, t)) D HoldsAt(f, t) Likewise if an event happens that terminates a fluent the fluent ceases to hold when it happens. EC, (Happens(e, t) Terminates(e,f, t)) D sHoldsAt(f, t) Events may release a fluent from the commonsense law of inertia, or they may termifiate if Pleased status. EC; (Happens(e, t) Releasesfe, f, t)) D ReleasedAbyf, t) EC, (Happensc(e, t) A (Initiates(e, f, t) V Terminates(e, f, t)) D ReleasedAt(f, t) Strictly speaking of course the effect should be felt after the event has happened. But between the instant the event happens and the instant when we want to evaluate the fluent nothing else should have happened. Hence, if we want to model 