xical semantics. With this approach, input sentences are transformed throug h the ue of domain dependent semantic rewrite rules which create the target knowledge strucoires. A second example of an iifcrmal lexical-semantic approach is one which USCS c'oncepttai dependency theory. Conceptual dependency structures provide a form of inked Knowlde that can be uscd in larger structures such a scenes and script.. The construction ot c ncetual dependency structures is accomplished without performing any direct syntactic analysis. Making the jump between utterance and Sec. 12.5 Semantic Analysis and Representation Structures 257 ACTOR: (a PP with animate attributes) OBJECT: (a PP( ACTION: lone of the primitive acts with tense) DIRECTION: (from-to direction of the action) INSTRUMENT: (object with which the act is performed) LOCATION: (event locationinformation) Figure 12.13 Cn..cptu.l Jcp-lcnc'. TIME: (time of the eventinformation) structure. these structures requires that more information be contained in the lexicon. The lexicon entries must include word sense and other information which relate the words to a number of prinhltive semantic categories as well as some s yntactic information. Recall front 7 that conceptualizations are either events or object states. Event structures include objects and their attributes, picture producers (PPs) or actors. actions, direction of action (to or from) and sometimes instruments that participate in the actions, and the location and time of the event. These items are collected together in a slot-filler structure as depicted in Figure 12.13. Verbs in the input string are a dominant factor in building conceptual dependency structures because they denote the event action or state. Consequently, lexicon entries for verbs will be more extensive than other entry types. They will contain all possible senses, tense, and other information. Each verb maps to one of the primitive actions; ATRANS. AT-FEND, CONC, EXPEL, GRASP, INGEST, MBUILD, MOVE. 