constraints. In a JTMS, on the other hand, the justification that is attached to a contradiction node provides exactly such a trace. The ATMS provides a natural way to answer questions of the form, In what contexts is A true? The only way to answer such questions using a JTMS is to try all the alternatives and record the ones in which A is labeled IN. One way to get the best of both of these worlds is to combine an ATMS and a JTMS (or LTMS), letting each handle the part of the problem-solving process to which it is best suited. The various nonmonotonic systems that we have described in this chapter have served as a basis for a variety of applications. One area of particular significance is diagnosis (for example, of faults in a physical device) [Reiter, 1987b; de Kleer and Williams, 1987]. Diagnosis is a natural application area for minimalist reasoning in particular, since one way to describe the diagnostic task is, Find the smalles : set of abnormally tschaving components that would account for the observed behavior. A second application area is reasoning about action, with a particular emphasis on addressing-the frame problem [Hanks and Mc Dermott, 1986]. The frame problem is also natural for this kind of reasoning since it can be described as, Assume that everything stays the same after an action except the things that necessarily change. A third application area is design [Steele ef a/., 1989]. Here, nonmonotonic reasoning provides a basis for using common design principles to find a promising path quickly even in a huge design space while preserving the option to consider alternatives later if necessary. And yet another application area is in extracting intent from English expressions {see Chapter 15.) In all the systems that we have discussed, we have assumed that belief status is a binary function. An assertion must eventually be either believed or not. Sometimes, this is too strong an assumption. In the next chapter, we present techniques for dealing with u