rns the last value executed within the block. Blocks are instances of the Block class that execute when sent the message value, value: or value:value:. depending on whether the block has zero, one, or two arguments. 156 Object-Oriented Representations Chap. 8 3.Variable assignment is made with: = as in Pascal. Some OOS implementations use the back arrow - like Algol for assignment index := 1 for index 1). 4. The vertical bar is used as a delimiter to identify a set of tempotary variables used in methods as well as a separator of method definitions within a class. S. An up arrow which immediately precedes an item signifies that the item is to be returned in response to a message. 6. Boolean relational tests use the relational symbols and syntax of the OOS such as 5 < 'string' size ('camel' at: 3) is Vowel. 7. Conditional statements follow the test condition as in a < b if True: Ia printi if Fatse: lb print). 8. Typical logical expressions are given by a > band: Ic < dl x is Digit or: tsr < y and: Iv <= $ill The dollar sign preceding a character identifies character objects. 9. Typical iteration constructs are whilelnie, while Faise. times Repeat, and do. 1. Ii print. i : i + 2. I <= 101 while True. ito: 10 do I(:j I array at: ii print]. paths := 6. paths tmes Repeat [ship move: 100; turn: 3601/pathsl. 10. The variable self in a method refers to the receiver object of the message that invokes the method. The variable super is used in a method to invoke a search for a method in an object's superclass. In addition to the above examples, an OOS will have many special methods for the definition of classes and objects and for the definition of class behaviors and class related tasks. Simulation of Seaport Operations An event driven simulation of the seaport operation described in Section 8.2 is t computed sequence of the events of interest which occur at discrete time points. Sec. 8.4 Simulation Example Using on OOS Program 157 This system would have as a minimum the three