covered with a lens that focuses light from
nearby object locations downtonearby locations intheimageplane. However, lenssystems
have a limited depth of field: they can focus light only from points that lie within a range
DEPTHOFFIELD
of depths (centered around a focal plane). Objects outside this range willbe out of focus in
FOCALPLANE
the image. Tomovethe focal plane, thelens inthe eyecan change shape (Figure 24.3); in a
camera,thelensesmovebackandforth.
24.1.3 Scaledorthographic projection
Perspective effects aren t always pronounced. For example, spots on a distant leopard may
looksmallbecausetheleopardisfaraway,buttwospotsthatarenexttoeachotherwillhave
aboutthesamesize. Thisisbecausethedifferenceindistancetothespotsissmallcompared
tothedistance tothem,andsowecansimplify theprojection model. Theappropriate model
SCALED is scaled orthographic projection. The idea is as follows: If the depth Z of points on the
ORTHOGRAPHIC
PROJECTION object varies within some range Z Z, with Z Z , then the perspective scaling
0 0
factor f Z canbeapproximated byaconstant s f Z . Theequations forprojection from
0
the scene coordinates (X,Y,Z) to the image plane become x s X and y s Y. Scaled
orthographicprojectionisanapproximationthatisvalidonlyforthosepartsofthescenewith
notmuchinternaldepthvariation. Forexample,scaledorthographic projectioncanbeagood
modelforthefeaturesonthefrontofadistant building.
24.1.4 Lightand shading
The brightness of a pixel in the image is a function of the brightness of the surface patch in
thescenethatprojectstothepixel. Wewillassumealinearmodel(currentcamerashavenon-
linearities attheextremesoflightanddark,butarelinear inthemiddle). Imagebrightness is
Section24.1. Image Formation 933
Diffuse reflection, bright
Specularities
Diffuse reflection, dark Cast shadow
Figure24.4 Avarietyofilluminationeffects. Therearespecularities onthemetalspoon
andonthemilk. Thebrightdiffusesurfaceisbrightbecauseitfacesthelightdirection. The
darkdiffusesurfaceisdarkbecauseiti