e instance or isa links upward, follow them. (c) Otherwise, terminate the branch. Weak Slot-and-Filler Structures 205 3. For each element C of CANDIDATES do: (a) See if there is any other element of CANDIDATES that was derived from a class closer to F than the class from which C came. (b) If there is, then, remove C from CANDIDATES. 4. Check the cardinality of CANDIDATES: (a) If it is 0, then report that no value was found. (b) If itis 1, then return the single element of CANDIDATES as V. (c) If itis greater than 1, report a contradiction. This algorithm is guaranteed to terminate because the isa hierarchy is represented as an acyclic graph. 9.2.6 Frame Languages The idea of a frame system as a way to represent declarative knowledge has been encapsulated in a series of frame-oriented knowledge representation languages, whose features have evolved and been driven by an increased understanding of the sort of representation issues we have been discussing. Examples of such languages include KRL [Bobrow and Winograd, 1977], FRL [Roberts and Goldstein, 1977], RLL [Greiner and Lenat, 1980], KL-ONE [Brachman, 1979; Brachman and Schmolze, 1985}, KRYPTON [Brachman et al., 1985], NIKL [Kaczmarek et al., 1986], CYCL {Lenat and Guha, 1990], conceptual graphs [Sowa, 1984}, THEO [Mitchell e al., 1989], and FRAMEKIT [Nyherg, 1988]. Although not all of these systems support all of the capabilities that we have discussed, the more modern of these systems permit elaborate and efficient representation of many kinds of knowledge. Their reasoning methods include most of the ones described here, plus many more, including subsumption checking, automatic classification, and various methods for consistency maintenance. EXERCISES ob rer nieecehiakeds ROP 1. Construct semantic net representations for the following: (a) Pompeian(Marcus), Blacksmith(Marcus) (b) Mary gave the green flowered vase to her favorite cousin. 2. Suppose we want to use a semantic net to discover relationships that could 