 places and
reliesonthelackofapercepttomakeonecrucialstep.
240 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
Theagenthasnowprovedtoitselfthatthereisneitherapitnorawumpusin 2,2 ,soit
is OKtomovethere. Wedonotshowtheagent sstateofknowledgeat 2,2 ;wejustassume
that the agent turns and moves to 2,3 , giving us Figure 7.4(b). In 2,3 , the agent detects a
glitter, soitshouldgrabthegoldandthenreturnhome.
Note that in each case for which the agent draws a conclusion from the available in-
formation, that conclusion is guaranteed tobecorrect iftheavailable information iscorrect.
This is a fundamental property of logical reasoning. In the rest of this chapter, we describe
howtobuildlogicalagentsthatcanrepresentinformationanddrawconclusionssuchasthose
described inthepreceding paragraphs.
7.3 LOGIC
This section summarizes the fundamental concepts of logical representation and reasoning.
These beautiful ideas are independent of any of logic s particular forms. We therefore post-
pone the technical details of those forms until the next section, using instead the familiar
exampleofordinary arithmetic.
In Section 7.1, we said that knowledge bases consist of sentences. These sentences
areexpressed according tothe syntax oftherepresentation language, whichspecifies allthe
SYNTAX
sentences that are well formed. The notion of syntax is clear enough in ordinary arithmetic: x y 4 isawell-formed sentence, whereas x4y isnot.
Alogicmustalsodefinethesemanticsormeaningofsentences. Thesemanticsdefines
SEMANTICS
the truth of each sentence with respect to each possible world. Forexample, the semantics
TRUTH
for arithmetic specifies that the sentence x y 4 is true in a world where x is 2 and y
POSSIBLEWORLD
is 2, but false in a world where x is 1 and y is1. In standard logics, every sentence must be
eithertrueorfalseineachpossible world there isno inbetween. 1
When we need to be precise, we use the term model in place of possible world. MODEL
Whereaspossibleworldsmightbethoughtofas(potentially)realenvironmentsthatth