t chooses a neighbour and then decides whether to move to it or not. ACO looks at all neighbours to pick one to move to. In SA, the decision is based only on the goodness of the move determined by AE (temperature T is an external parameter). The decision in ACO is based on a combination of memetic signals of experience and the estimated goodness as determined by the heuristic function. Real ant colonies survive because the simple interaction between simple agents has clicked (or emerged) as a good food finding behaviour. An individual ant, viewed as a system itself, is quite simple. The apparent complexity of its behaviour over time is largely a reflection of the complexity of the environment (terrain) in which it finds itself. See (Minsky, 1986; 2006) for more on emergent behaviour from simple elements in human brains. The strategy of ants is hardwired for food finding. It has survived so long because food for energy is a primary need for life, and ants probably don t need much else. Observe that the strategy is good for ant colonies as a whole, or ant species in general. Consequently, it is also good for most individual ants; but it may not necessarily be good for a given individual ant. Humans on the other hand are much more complex creatures. They have evolved brains, which they consciously use to work for the survival of the owner of the brain, the individual2'. In the process, we have evolved many secondary goals such as old age security, self actualization goals, recreation and entertainment goals. We pose and solve many different problems in many different ways. Communication between humans has gone much beyond, leaving simple chemical trails. We are able to model our environments, reason with our models, and communicate our thoughts and reasons to others via spoken and written language. The average human receives a considerable amount of information from society though her lifetime. Our knowledge and language systems need a much more detailed study that goe