l success. If someone comes along
andpaintsthetableredatthesametimethattheagentispaintingthechairred,thenthefinal
planpreconditionsaresatisfied(thegoalhasbeenachieved),andtheagentcangohomeearly.
It is straightforward to modify a planning algorithm so that each action in the plan
is annotated with the action s preconditions, thus enabling action monitoring. It is slightly
4 Planmonitoringmeansthatfinally,after424pages,wehaveanagentthatissmarterthanadungbeetle(see
page39). Aplan-monitoringagentwouldnoticethatthedungballwasmissingfromitsgraspandwouldreplan
togetanotherballandplugitshole.
Section11.4. Multiagent Planning 425
more complex to enable plan monitoring. Partial-order and planning-graph planners have
the advantage that they have already built up structures that contain the relations necessary
forplanmonitoring. Augmentingstate-space planners with thenecessary annotations canbe
donebycarefulbookkeeping asthegoalfluentsareregressed throughtheplan.
Now that we have described a method for monitoring and replanning, we need to ask, Does it work? This is a surprisingly tricky question. If we mean, Can we guarantee that
the agent will always achieve the goal? then the answer is no, because the agent could
inadvertently arrive at a dead end from which there is no repair. For example, the vacuum
agent might have a faulty model of itself and not know that its batteries can run out. Once
theydo,itcannot repairanyplans. Ifweruleoutdeadends assume thatthereexists aplan
to reach the goal from any state in the environment and assume that the environment is
really nondeterministic, in the sense that such a plan always has some chance of success on
anygivenexecutionattempt,thentheagentwilleventually reachthegoal.
Trouble occurs when an action is actually not nondeterministic, but rather depends on
some precondition that the agent does not know about. For example, sometimes a paint
canmaybeempty,sopaintingfromthatcanhasnoeffect. Noamountofretrying isgoingto
changethis.5 Onesolu