ane pay for her dinner? . Would conceptual dependency be a good way to represent the contents of a typical issue of National Geographic ? . State where in the CYC ontology following concepts should fall: cat : court case New York Times France glass of water CHAPTER 11 KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATION SUMMARY We achieve more than we Know. We Know more than we understand. We understand more than we can explain. Claude Bernard (1813-1878), French scientific philosopher In this chapter, we review the representational schemes that have been discussed so far and we mention briefly some additional representational techniques that are sometimes useful. You may find it useful at this point to reread Chapter 4 for a review of the knowledge representation issues that we outlined there. 11.1 SYNTACTIC-SEMANTIC SPECTRUM OF REPRESENTATION One way to review the representational schemes we have just described is to consider an important dimension along which they can be characterized. At one extreme are purely syntactic systems, in which no concern is given to the meaning of the knowledge that is being represented. Such systems, have simple, uniform rules for manipulating the representation. They do not care what information the representation contains. At the other extreme are purely semantic systems, in which there is no unified form. Every aspect of the representation corresponds to a different piece of information, and the inference rules are correspondingly complicated. So. far, we have discussed eight declarative structures in which knowledge can be represented: Predicate logic Production rules Nonmonotonic systems Statistical reasoning systems Semantic nets Frames Conceptual dependency Scripts c YCc OF these, the logical representations (predicate logic and the nonmonotonic systems) and the statistical ones ase Whe MOS Pray Sprache Thar whes dh wfererse ae shally ymache procedures Wak OPETRE On Knowledge Representation Summary 223 well-formed formulas (wff) regardless of what those 