al pitfalls. Every trial-and-error search method has to contend with a danger lurking in the deep. That deeper one searches the greater number of possibilities one has to consider, not unlike the monster Hydra that Hercules has to fight (in Greek mythology). For every head Hercules severed, several more appeared. A similar thing happens in search. Every failed possibility gives rise to several new ones. We will call our monster CombEx, for combinatorial explosion, the bane of every search method. And yet we can fight CombEx. The weapon we deploy successfully in our daily lives is knowledge; knowledge about how to do things, knowledge about what the world is like, and knowledge gleaned from our experiences and that of others. The second half of the book is concerned with knowledge representation and reasoning. This is in contrast to the first half that ignored how the world was represented. In the second half, we explore ways to represent different kinds of knowledge and study algorithms to exploit that knowledge. Chapter 11 introduces the issues dealt with in the second half. Chapter 12 deals with first order logic and theorem proving methods. Chapter 13 is concerned with how we express everyday facts in first order logic. We also look at the process of reification that allows us to extend the logic to talk about events and actions. Chapter 14 introduces the notion of knowledge structures. We look at organizing knowledge into packages and hierarchies, and look at notions of inheritance. Chapter 15 is concerned with problem solving by remembering and reusing experiences. The simple process of storing experiences and recalling relevant ones has proven to very effective. Chapter 16 focuses on natural language processing. We study the techniques needed to process a sentence in language and the task of disambiguation that crops us. We also look at text processing applications like information retrieval and machine translation. Chapter 17 looks at various methods of deali