. Or an agent searching for a treasure does not know where the treasure is buried. The Objective is Only on the Final State. Classical planning states the objectives as conditions on final state. In practice, there may be requirements on the plan trajectory too. For example, there may be a condition that if you open the refrigerator door, you must close it too. The Goals are Categorical. A plan is valid if all the goal predicates are achieved. One may also want to introduce goals that are desirable, though not mandatory. This means, that one may be willing to relinquish some goal predicates, usually to save on some other cost metric. One may have, for example, a long shopping list, while going to the market, but may settle for a subset due to time or capacity constraints. Each of the other assumptions may be relaxed, at the expense of increasing computationally complexity. We will look at some of the approaches to solve problems of some of the richer domains in later chapters. We will also look at some other approaches that take a completely different view of the planning problem, creating intermediate representations before addressing the planning task itself. We have not used the notion of heuristic functions in this chapter, because the methods we are investigating are domain independent methods. However, given the fact that even the simplest planning domains are hard, there is an incentive to looks for methods that will speed up the search. Towards this end, we will also look at the notion of domain independent heuristics in Chapter 10, which look at relaxed versions of planning problems to determine which of the choices to be made are more promising. e Exercises 1. Choose an interesting problem from the real world and pose it as a planning problem. 2. The Gripper domain of the International Planning Competition (IPC) (see http: ipc.icaps-conference.org ) is as follows. There are some number of named balls in a room. A two-armed robot, with two grippers, has the