) relation defined above. Extract from this lattice a sublattice in which the given knowledge base . The set of minimal elements of this sub-lattice is the circumscription. If a given formula a is entailed in all these minimal interpretations, then we accept that Fe a. The concept of Circumscription is not confined just to abnormal predicates. It is only a mechanism to specify which predicates need to be minimized in the extent. The reader will recall that in our study of the Event Calculus in Chapter 13, we had employed Circumscription to make the assumption that only the specified events had happened, and that events had only the specified effects. In our example KB,, with addition of Divya and the new unnamed student, we could have used Circumscription of the augmented KB, with respect to the Friends predicate to be able to answer that there was no one Divya chatted with. Circumscription has its own problems. Imagine that in our domain of people who make friends and chat with them on the Internet, there is a category of people called DoNotChat who, as the name suggests, do not chat. This makes them isolated . Let us assume that there are such people, though the knowledge base does not say so explicitly. And let us assume, for the sake of illustration, that Jennifer is no longer in solated. The resulting knowledge base KB, looks like, KB,;: Vx Vy (Friend(x,y) Friend(y,x)) Vx Vy (Friend(x,y) A 7Isolated(x) A 7Isolated(y) D Chat (x,y)) Vx (IDoNotChat (x) D Isolated(x)) Friend(aditi, shubhgata), Friend(aditi, jennifer), Friend(jennifer, vinayak), Friend(shubagata, subun), Now, given the same query Chat(aditi, shubhagata) Circ KB,; Isolated constructs a model in which there are no solated people. KB, F 7x Isolated(x) But this means that there can be no members in the DoNotChat category. The problem is that in the process of minimizing the set Isolated (so that both Aditi and Shubhagata do not fall in the set), the proverbial baby has been thrown out with the bath wate