 Water at sea temperature Tinput is taken into a boiler and steam is generated. This steam is pushed through a superheater that increases the temperature to around 500 Celsius. Let us say that the ship travels from the Arctic seas to the tropics, so that the water is taken in at a higher temperature. Does this affect the output temperature Toutput? If yes, how? Se ee t Superheater A Water Input Tug 2 500 Celsius from v Superheated the sea Boiler a Stea Ejected Trop Figure 17.43 The propulsion system of a steam ship. 9. In the scenario depicted in Section 17.2, assume that the walls in the room have windows that are open. How will the qualitative analysis of the moving ball change as a consequence? . Create an envisionment similar to the Figure 17.5, for a ball thrown at an angle in a two-dimensional room without windows. . In the above envisionment, represent the different qualitative states using the qmag, qdir representation of QSIM. . Given the steady state of the two tank system described in Table 17.7, determine the qualitative behaviour of the system, if tank A were to be suddenly filled to the brim. . Given a lattice representing the power set of components, and a set of candidates for diagnosis in the lattice (as in Section 17.3.3), write an algorithm to accept a new conflict set and update the set of candidates for diagnosis. Given the conflict M,, Mz, A; and the observations F, 10 and F5 12 in Section 17.3.1, derive another constraint by deriving the value of C2 in two different ways. . In the diagnosis example considered in the text (Figure 17.12), the discrepancy between the observed value F,; 10 and expected value F, 12 led to the candidates M2, Ao and M3, Ao . In what way could these diagnoses explain the observed discrepancy? . Write an algorithm that takes a set of candidate diagnoses and a new conflict and generates the new set of candidates. After processing the input F, 10 and Fo 12, one more measurement is made. Extend the diagram in Figure 17.15