earned, they are hard to modify. If a search control rule starts to perform badly, it is usually deleted in toto. Another trade-off involves indexing. Search control rules are fully indexed: they apply in exactly the situations to which they are relevant. Cases, on the other hand, are usually indexed heuristically, as we saw above. Finally, search control rules are explicitly generalized at storage time. In CBR, generalization occurs over time as a by-product of the retrieval and adaptation process. Aggressive generalization makes it easy to solve new ptoblems quickly, but in less complete domains, where proper generalizations are unknown, an aggressive strategy can be inefficient and even incorrect. EXERCISES 1. Consider a toy balloon hooked up to a bottle of compressed air. As the air is released, the balloon expands. Using qualitative measures, list the quantity spaces of variables and rates of change in this system. Construct an envisionment for the system, and write down one possible history. 2. Express all the temporal relations in Fig.19.3 in terms of the single relation MEETS. 3. Suppose you know the following facts: e The Franco-Prussian War took place before World War I. The Battle of Verdun took place during World War I. Convert these facts into logical statements in terms of the MEETS relation. Use the common sense axioms of time given in Section 19.2.1 to show that the Franco-Prussian War must have occurred before the Battle of Verdun. Using the axioms in Section 19.2.2, show that a robot submerged under water will be wet all over. Case-based reasoning shares many of the same ideas of learning by analogy (Section 17.8). Briefly discuss how transformational and derivational analogy could apply in case-based reasoning systems. 6. Forgetting is one aspect of human memory that is not usually modeled in computer systems. Under what circumstances might a case-based reasoning system benefit from the ability to forget? wep CHAPTER 20 EXPERT SYSTEMS Aun expert i