o detour around sets of sentences that seem to be causing the system to take several
weekstosolveaproblem. Thethrustindescriptionlogics,ontheotherhand,istoensurethat
subsumption-testing canbesolvedintimepolynomial inthesizeofthedescriptions.7
6 Notice that the language does not allow one to simply state that one concept, or category, is a subset of
another. Thisisadeliberatepolicy:subsumptionbetweencategoriesmustbederivablefromsomeaspectsofthe
descriptionsofthecategories.Ifnot,thensomethingismissingfromthedescriptions.
7 CLASSI Cprovidesefficientsubsumptiontestinginpractice,buttheworst-caseruntimeisexponential.
458 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
This sounds wonderful in principle, until one realizes that it can only have one of two
consequences: either hard problems cannot be stated at all, or they require exponentially
large descriptions! However,thetractability results doshed lightonwhatsorts ofconstructs
cause problems and thus help the user to understand how different representations behave.
For example, description logics usually lack negation and disjunction. Each forces first-
orderlogicalsystemstogothrough apotentially exponential caseanalysis inordertoensure
completeness. CLASSIC allows only a limited form of disjunction in the Fills and One Of
constructs, which permit disjunction overexplicitly enumerated individuals but not overde-
scriptions. Withdisjunctive descriptions, nested definitions canleadeasily toanexponential
numberofalternative routesbywhichonecategory cansubsumeanother.
12.6 REASONING WITH DEFAULT INFORMATION
Inthepreceding section,wesawasimpleexampleofanassertionwithdefaultstatus: people
have two legs. This default can be overridden by more specific information, such as that
Long John Silverhasone leg. Wesaw thatthe inheritance mechanism insemantic networks
implements the overriding of defaults in a simple and natural way. In this section, we study
defaults more generally, with a view toward understanding the semantics of defaults rat