ivability of the offspring. Thus, people tend to be attracted to potential mates who will have healthy offspring. Finding Optimal Paths Chapter 5 Heuristic functions exploit domain knowledge to orient the search process towards the desired goal. The objective of using a heuristic function is efficiency of the solution finding process. The solution that a search process returns may itself have a property or quality that may be of interest. That is the cost of executing the solution. This cost is something that we may want to minimize . For example, in transportation to, say Mars, each trip will have an associated cost, which is quite significant. Or the different operations that go into acquiring components and assembling a product would each have an associated cost. Optimal solutions would be needed, especially if the solution found has to be executed many times. In such a case, the primary concern would be solution quality, and the speed with which the algorithm finds the solution could well be secondary. While the number of moves that make up the solution is often a good measure of cost, it may become inappropriate when different moves have different costs associated with them. For example, you may have to change a couple of buses to reach a destination. This would count as two or three moves. Hiring a cab may accomplish the journey in one move, but is likely to be more expensive. The optimization community refers to the property that we seek to minimize as the objective function. In general, optimization can be a computationally hard problem. In Chapter 4, we looked at some methods for optimization that were designed to find good solutions within a reasonable time. In this chapter, we investigate methods that guarantee an optimal or a least cost solution. 5.1 Brute Force The following algorithm is guaranteed to return the optimal solution BritishMuseumProcedure () l Explcre the entire search space 2 return the cptimal solution FIGURE 5.1 The British Museum Proced