Refinement of this network can be done in any one of the following ways, Expanding a node like in NOAH or in HTN planning. A node is replaced by a network of lower level actions. Introducing new actions like in PSP. Addition of actions in PSP has a backward state space search flavour because it caters to open conditions of some nodes. One can also allow actions to be added by MEA like computing as in ABSTRIPS, which identifies some essential actions first, and worry about their placement later. From the NOAH perspective, this would mean refining a high level task. Imposing ordering constraints on some nodes of a partial plan as in PSP and NOAH in response to threats or conflicts. Adding actions with contiguity links to the head step or the tail step, as in state space planning. Imposing contiguity links on some actions added by MEA strategy, like in STRIPS GSP. Thus, in principle, a planner could interleave any of the refinement steps above. We can also think of refinement as partitioning a set of candidate plans. Planning starts with the set of all possible plans. Remember, that this set is an infinite set even for finite domains, as long as looping is possible. A refinement step selects a subset from a set of plans. Let the refinement step choose a subset A, as shown by the dashed lines in Figure 7.32. We say that the refinement is complete, if the subset contains all the solution plans in the parent set. For example, the refinement step in the figure on the right is complete, because the selected subset contains all the solutions, shown as the shaded set. If the refinement operators we have are complete then the planner will find a solution directly through the refinement process. If the refinement step is incomplete then the planner may need to backtrack at some point, if a refinement contains no solution and try another subset. CA ( a, ) Figure 7.32 Refinement selects a subset of candidates. Subset A in the Venn diagram on the right contains the set of all solu