ne with logic and com-
putation. The first nontrivial algorithm is thought to be Euclid s algorithm for computing
ALGORITHM
greatest common divisors. Theword algorithm (and the idea of studying them) comes from
al-Khowarazmi, a Persian mathematician of the 9th century, whose writings also introduced
Arabic numerals and algebra to Europe. Boole and others discussed algorithms for logical
deduction, and, bythelate 19thcentury, efforts wereunder waytoformalize general mathe-
matical reasoning as logical deduction. In 1930, Kurt Go del (1906 1978) showed that there
exists aneffective procedure toprove anytrue statement in the first-order logic of Fregeand
Russell, but that first-order logic could not capture the principle of mathematical induction
needed to characterize the natural numbers. In 1931, Go del showed that limits on deduc-
INCOMPLETENESS tion do exist. His incompleteness theorem showed that in any formal theory as strong as
THEOREM
Peano arithmetic (the elementary theory of natural numbers), there are true statements that
areundecidable inthesensethattheyhavenoproofwithinthetheory.
This fundamental result can also be interpreted as showing that some functions on the
integers cannot be represented by an algorithm that is, they cannot be computed. This
motivated Alan Turing (1912 1954) to try to characterize exactly which functions are com-
putable capable of being computed. This notion is actually slightly problematic because
COMPUTABLE
thenotionofacomputation oreffectiveprocedure reallycannotbegivenaformaldefinition.
However, the Church Turing thesis, which states that the Turing machine (Turing, 1936) is
capableofcomputinganycomputablefunction,isgenerallyacceptedasprovidingasufficient
definition. Turing also showed that there were some functions that no Turing machine can
compute. For example, no machine can tell in general whether a given program will return
anansweronagiveninputorrunforever.
Althoughdecidabilityandcomputabilityareimportanttoanunderstandin