expectations are not validated in garden path sentences we are forced to revise them. Such violation of expectations is often the basis of humour as well. While listening to a joke we are often led down a garden path, before seeing the funnier side. For example the following sentence is attributed to the comedian and film star Groucho Marx, Time flies like an arrow. Fruit flies like a banana . Another example where we are led up a garden path as to the syntactic category of the word flies is the joke2 , Question: What has four wheels and flies? irhut. Eom Answer: a garbage truck 13.7.4 Homographs and Word Senses Natural languages are replete with words that mean different things (homographs or homonyms) or have different semantic senses in different sentences. Homographs are words that have more than one concept (structures) associated with them. Examples of such words are plane, bank, terminal, mouse, fly, glass, and cricket. The following sentences contain two instances of a homograph with different senses. 1. Asiya rose to find a rose on her window sill. 2. It does not bode well for the ecology to kill does. 3. The wind blows hard on the roads that wind up the mountain. 4. Asitar in sound condition will produce a good sound. 5. The soldiers may desert the legion in the hot desert. Retrieving such a word would mean having to choose from the competing structures. This could either be done by searching for the correct match, trying them one by one, or it could be done by bringing knowledge from different sources to the fore. In the following chapters we shall look at some of the approaches that exploit other forms of knowledge. Prepositional words like in, on, by, to and with are often used to link up words in many different ways. Consider for example the use of with in the following sentences. The bottles are filled with wine. The bottles are filled with automatic machines. Adora killed the cockroaches with insecticide. Abasi ate the ice cream with gusto. Abasi ate