al thinking, respectively. It is now a common
(although far from universal) view among psychologists that a cognitive theory should be
likeacomputerprogram (Anderson,1980);thatis,itshoulddescribeadetailedinformation-
processing mechanismwherebysomecognitivefunction mightbeimplemented.
1.2.6 Computer engineering Howcanwebuildanefficientcomputer?
For artificial intelligence to succeed, we need two things: intelligence and an artifact. The
computer has been the artifact of choice. The modern digital electronic computer was in-
ventedindependently andalmostsimultaneously byscientistsinthreecountriesembattledin
14 Chapter 1. Introduction
World War II. The first operational computer was the electromechanical Heath Robinson,8
built in 1940 by Alan Turing s team forasingle purpose: deciphering German messages. In
1943, the same group developed the Colossus, a powerful general-purpose machine based
on vacuum tubes.9 The first operational programmable computer was the Z-3, the inven-
tionof Konrad Zusein Germanyin1941. Zusealsoinvented floating-point numbers andthe
first high-level programming language, Plankalku l. The first electronic computer, the ABC,
was assembled by John Atanasoff and his student Clifford Berry between 1940 and 1942
at Iowa State University. Atanasoff s research received little support or recognition; it was
the ENIAC, developed as part of a secret military project at the University of Pennsylvania
by a team including John Mauchly and John Eckert, that proved to be the most influential
forerunnerofmoderncomputers.
Sincethattime,eachgenerationofcomputerhardwarehasbroughtanincreaseinspeed
andcapacityandadecreaseinprice. Performancedoubledevery18monthsorsountilaround
2005,whenpowerdissipationproblemsledmanufacturers to startmultiplyingthenumberof
CP Ucoresratherthantheclockspeed. Currentexpectations arethatfutureincreasesinpower
willcomefrommassiveparallelism a curious convergence withtheproperties ofthebrain.
Of course, there were calculating devices befo