Keith, 1921), (Gangopadhyaya, 1981), and adopted by John Dalton in the early nineteenth century, but that too turned out to be a composite structure.? Nevertheless, a considerable amount of representation and reasoning happens at different levels in the aggregation hierarchy. Physicists talk about strings and neutrinos, while chemists are content to deal with the atoms and molecules. Biologists and botanists work with genes and cells, while the physician thinks in terms of bacteria and organs of the human body. For sociologists, psychologists, anthropologists and economists, humans are the basic units. Ecologists and environmentalists are concerned with processes that impact the well being of the planet, while astronomers and astrophysicists consider the earth as a speck in the vast universe. A good feel of this hierarchy is given in the book based on the movie Powers of Ten (Morrison et al, 1985). Figure 14.2 gives a concrete illustration of the two kinds of hierarchies over the set of people, with six particular individuals that were part of the famous Italian team that ruled the world of competitive bridge in the early latter half of the twentieth century. Brdge-Team Pairl Pair2 Pair3 Bridge-Pair Player! Player2 (Blue Team (Belladonna-Avarelli) (Garozzo-Forque tS (Pabis-Ticci-D' (Computer- Bridge-Player . ietro Forquet Camillo Pabis-Ticci Massimo D'Alelio FIGURE 14.2 An example of the aggregation and abstraction relations. A bridge pair has two bridge players, and a team has three pairs. The team featured here is the famous Italian Blue Team. Observe that the only concrete elements here are the six people. While the aggregations, the three pairs and the team, do exist on the ground, they involve the same six players. These are not the only relations that exist. There are others which are more specific to different nodes in a wider semantic net, and are often between different kinds of things. For example, we have not represented bridge as a game. If we do so then