 Aisanewconstant. However,wecan tapply Ex-
istential Instantiation tooursentence abovebecause itdoesn t matchthepattern v ;
only parts of the sentence match the pattern. If we blindly apply the rule to the two
matchingpartsweget x Animal(A) Loves(x,A) Loves(B,x),
which has the wrong meaning entirely: it says that everyone either fails to love a par-
ticular animal Aoris loved by some particular entity B. In fact, our original sentence
allowseachpersontofailtoloveadifferentanimalortobelovedbyadifferentperson.
Thus,wewantthe Skolementitiestodepend onxandz: x Animal(F(x)) Loves(x,F(x)) Loves(G(z),x).
Here F and G are Skolem functions. The general rule is that the arguments of the
SKOLEMFUNCTION
Skolem function are all the universally quantified variables in whose scope the exis-
tentialquantifierappears. Aswith Existential Instantiation, the Skolemized sentence is
satisfiableexactlywhentheoriginal sentence issatisfiable.
Section9.5. Resolution 347 Dropuniversal quantifiers: Atthis point, all remaining variables mustbe universally
quantified. Moreover, thesentence isequivalent tooneinwhichalltheuniversal quan-
tifiershavebeenmovedtotheleft. Wecantherefore droptheuniversal quantifiers: Animal(F(x)) Loves(x,F(x)) Loves(G(z),x). Distribute over : Animal(F(x)) Loves(G(z),x) Loves(x,F(x)) Loves(G(z),x) .
Thisstepmayalsorequireflatteningoutnestedconjunctions anddisjunctions.
The sentence is now in CNF and consists of two clauses. It is quite unreadable. (It may
help to explain that the Skolem function F(x)refers tothe animal potentially unloved by x,
whereas G(z) refers to someone who might love x.) Fortunately, humans seldom need look
at CN Fsentences the translation processiseasilyautomated.
9.5.2 The resolutioninference rule
Theresolution rule forfirst-order clauses issimply aliftedversion ofthepropositional reso-
lution rule given on page 253. Two clauses, which are assumed to be standardized apart so
that they share no variables, can be resolved if they contain complemen