o the Empiricist school of philosophy that said that there existed an outside world in which our own ideas were rooted. But Berkeley argued that the outside world was also composed of ideas, and that ideas can only resemble ideas. He says that what we call as bodies are simply stable collections of perceptions to which we give names like tree , cloud , and so on. If we believe that there are only ideas in the world (idealism) then we do not have to contend with the mind-body dualism that Descartes faced. More recently, Steve Grand (2001) has observed in his book that what we think is a cloud seen floating over a mountain is actually made up of moisture in the wind flowing over there. Our perception of a stationary cloud is only because condensation happens only in that region. Even when we accept, like Locke, that there is a real world out there, we have to be careful about our perceptions about it. If we assume the atomic theory of matter then we can think of every physical object, including our own body, as made up of a large collection of atoms forming complex molecules, which in turn form cells, which in turn form organs, and so on. We tend to think of different clusters of atoms as individual objects and give them names. But biologists tell us that the bodies we had, say twenty years ago, were made up an entirely different set of atoms as compared to what we are made up of now. Yet, we think of our body as the same one we had as a child. Likewise, we know that a tree that we perceive in the forest has leaves that were not there last year, yet we think of it as the same tree. In his book, Six Easy Pieces, physicist Richard Feynman (1962) describes in detail how what we perceive as still water in a vessel is actually a humdrum of activity with atoms moving around, leaving the surface (evaporating) and reentering the liquid. We can extend this description to almost everything in the world around us. The fact that we tend to think of objects with well defined exten