 see that when AE is positive, the probability is greater than half; and when it is negative, the probability is less than half. Thus, a move to a better node is more likely to be made, than a move to a worse node, though both have nonzero probability. For any given temperature, the greater the AE, the more the probability of the move being made. When AE is negative then the probability becomes lower as the loss in value becomes greater. Observe that for all temperatures, the probability is half when AE 0. This means that when the neighbour evaluates to the same value as the current node, it does not matter and one may or may not move to it with equal probability. Finally, one can observe that as temperature T becomes lower, the Sigmoid probability function tends to become more and more like a step function. When T 0, it is a step function and the decision to move to the neighbour becomes a deterministic one. The search moves to the neighbour (with probability 1) if the neighbour is better (AE 0), else it does not move to it (moves with probability 0). This is like the Hill Climbing algorithm. The Simulated Annealing algorithm does a large number of probabilistic moves with the temperature parameter being gradually reduced from a large initial value to a lower one. The manner in which the temperature is brought down is known as the cooling schedule. The intuition is that starting off with random moves that allow the search to explore the search space, the temperature is lowered gradually to make the search more exploitative of the gradient information. As time goes by, the probability of the search being in the vicinity of the global optimum becomes higher, and at some point the gradient dominates the search and leads it to the optimum. The general outline of the SA algorithm is given below in Figure 4.7. There are many variations that can be done here, by choosing different cooling schedules. Another variation is one in which probabilistic moves are made only for n