 R done, A must have a reason for assuming that B can do R, A must have a reason for assuming that B is willing to do R, and A must have a reason for assuming that B was not already planning to do R. Reasonableness conditions often provide the basis for challenging a request. Together with the sincerity conditions described above, they account for the coherence of the following interchange: A: Can you open the door? B: Why do you want it open? Appropriateness Conditions For a statement to be appropriate, it must provide the correct amount of information, it must accurately reflect the speaker s beliefs, it must be concise and unambiguous, and it must be polite. These conditions account for A s response in the following interchange: A: Who won the race? B: Someone with long, dark hair. A: I thought you knew all the runners. A inferred from B s incomplete response that B did not know who won the race, because if B had known she would have provided a name. Of course, sometimes people cop out of these conventions. In the following dialogue, B is explicitly copping out: A: Who is going to be nominated for the position? B: I m sorry, I cannot answer that question. But in the absence of such a cop out, and assuming a cooperative relationship between the parties to a dialogue, the shared assumption of these postulates greatly facilitates communication. For a more detailed discussion of conversational postulates, see Grice [1975] and Gordon and Lakoff [1975]. We can axiomatize these conversational postulates by augmenting the preconditions for the speech acts that we have already defined. For example, we can describe the sincerity conditions by adding the following clauses to the precondition for REQUEST(A, B, R): WANT(A, PERFORM(2, R)) BELIEVE(A, CAN-PERFORM(8, R)) BELIEVE(A, WILLING-T0-PERFORM(3, R)) BELIEVE(A, ~WILL(PERFORM(8, R))) Natural Language Processing 321 en SOUR ET A RAPIER TERETE PSTE If we assume that each participant in a dialogue is following these convention