, then, if anything, can we say about those techniques besides the fact that they manipulate symbols? How could we tell if those techniques might be useful in solving other problems, perhaps ones not traditionally regarded as AI tasks? The rest of this book is an attempt to answer those questions in detail. But before we begin examining closely the individual techniques, it is enlightening to take a broad look at them to see what properties they ought to possess. One of the few hard and fast results to come out of the first three decades of AI research is that intelligence requires knowledge. To compensate for its one overpowering asset, indispensability, knowledge possesses some less desirable properties, including: It is voluminous. It is hard to characterize accurately. It is constantly changing. It differs from data by being organized in a way that corresponds to the ways it will be used. So where does this leave us in our attempt to define AI techniques? We are forced to conclude that an AI technique is a method that exploits knowledge that should be represented in such a way that: The knowledge captures generalizations. In other words, it is not necessary to represent separately each individual situation. Instead, situations that share important properties are grouped together. If knowledge does not have this property, inordinate amounts of memory and updating will be required. So we usually call something without this property data rather than knowledge. It can be understood by people who must provide it. Although for many programs, the bulk of the data can be acquired automatically (for example, by taking readings from a variety of instruments), in many Al domains, most of the knowledge a program has must ultimately be provided by peopte in terms they understand. i, | 8 Artificial Intelligence ce RNCRNRROt ERRIRRRIRCCRINUMNENINRERAE'.. co It can easily be modified to correct errors and to reflect changes in the world and in our world view. * Tt can be used i