verbs involve a transfer of ownership of an object: e Give e Take John Bill Steal * Donate Tf any of them occurs, then inferences about who Poss-by now has the object and who once had the object (and p Bill nose < = John thus who may know something about it) may be _ _Bill <=> MTRANS fe important. In a CD representation, those possible fh do, broken inferences can be stated once and associated with the primitive ACT ATRANS. A second argument in favor of the use of CD John 5 dog Tepresentation 1S that to construct it, we must use not only the information that is stated explicitly in a sentence but also a set of inference rules associated with the Bill > do, specific information. Having applied these: rules once, we store these results as part of the representation and they can be used repeatedly without the rules being reapplied. For example, consider the sentence Poss-by|| John Fig. 10.4 The CD Representation of a Threat John <=> believe ae {l nose > broken Bill threatened John With a broken nose. The CD representation of the information contained in this sentence is shown in Fig. 10.4. (For simplicity, believe is shown as a single unit. In fact, it must be represented in terms of primitive ACTs and a model of the human information processing system.) It says that Bill informed John that he (Bill) will do something to 212 Artificial Intelligence break John s nose. Bill did this so that John will believe that if he John) does some other thing (different from what Bill will do to break his nose), then Bill will break John s nose. In this representation, the word believe has been used to simplify the example. But the idea behind believe can be represented in CD as an MTRANS of a fact into John s memory. The actions do, and do, are dummy placeholders that refer to some as yet unspecified actions. A third argument for the use of the CD representation is that unspecified elements of the representation of one piece of, information can be used as a focus for the understandi