 be improved by using branch-and-bound techniques in which partial solutions that are clearly worse than known solutions can be abandoned early. We described a straightforward application of this technique to the traveling salesman problem in Section 2.2.1. For that problem, all that was required was storage of the length of the best path found so far. If a later partial path outgrew that bound, it was abandoned. Game Playing 237 But just as it was necessary to modify our search procedure slightly to handle both maximizing and minimizing players, it is also necessary to modify the branch-and-bound strategy to include two bounds, one for each of the players. This modified strategy is called alpha-beta pruning. It requires the maintenance of two threshold values, one representing a lower bound on the value that a maximizing node may ultimately be assigned (we call this alpha) and another representing an upper bound on the value that a minimizing node may be assigned (this we call beta). To see how the alpha-beta procedure works, consider the example shown in Fig. 12.4.3 After examining node F, we know that the opponent is guaranteed a score of 5 or less at C (since the opponent is the minimizing player). But we also know that we are guaranteed a score of 3 or greater at node A, which we can achieve if we move to B. Any other move that produces a score of less than 3 is worse than the move to B, [A] (> 3) and we can ignore it. After examining only F, we are sure that a move to C is worse Maximizing ply (it will be Jess than or equal to 5) regardless of the - score of node G. Thus we need not bother to explore B | (3) C}(<-5) node G at all. Of course, cutting out one node may not appear to justify the expense of keeping track Minimizing ply of the limits and checking them, but if we were D E F |S exploring this tree to six ply, then we would have (3) (5) (-5) eliminated not a single node but an entire tree three ply deep. To see how the two thresholds, alpha and beta, c