 P(X x ... X x ). We use the notation
1 1 n n
P(x ,...,x )asanabbreviation forthis. Thevalueofthisentryisgivenbytheformula
1 n
(cid:25)n
P(x ,...,x ) (x parents(X )), (14.1)
1 n i i
i 1
where parents(X ) denotes the values of Parents(X ) that appear in x ,...,x . Thus,
i i 1 n
each entry in the joint distribution is represented by the product of the appropriate elements
oftheconditional probability tables(CP Ts)inthe Bayesiannetwork.
From this definition, it is easy to prove that the parameters (X Parents(X )) are
i i
exactly the conditional probabilities P(X Parents(X )) implied by the joint distribution
i i
(see Exercise14.2). Hence,wecanrewrite Equation(14.1)as
(cid:25)n
P(x ,...,x ) P(x parents(X )). (14.2)
1 n i i
i 1
Inotherwords, thetables wehavebeen calling conditional probability tables really arecon-
ditional probability tablesaccording tothesemanticsdefinedin Equation(14.1).
Toillustratethis,wecancalculatetheprobabilitythatthealarmhassounded,butneither
aburglary noranearthquake hasoccurred, andboth Johnand Marycall. Wemultiplyentries
514 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
fromthejointdistribution (usingsingle-letter namesfor thevariables):
P(j,m,a, b, e) P(j a)P(m a)P(a b e)P( b)P( e) 0.90 0.70 0.001 0.999 0.998 0.000628 .
Section 13.3 explained that the full joint distribution can be used to answer any query about
thedomain. Ifa Bayesiannetworkisarepresentation ofthejointdistribution, thenittoocan
beusedtoansweranyquery, bysummingalltherelevantjoint entries. Section14.4explains
howtodothis,butalsodescribes methodsthataremuchmoreefficient.
Amethodforconstructing Bayesiannetworks
Equation (14.2) defines what a given Bayesian network means. The next step is to explain
how to construct a Bayesian network in such a way that the resulting joint distribution is a
goodrepresentationofagivendomain. Wewillnowshowthat Equation(14.2)impliescertain
conditional independence relationships that can be used to guide the knowledge engineer in
constructing thetopologyofth