d claims that the A algorithm may not terminate with the shortest path. (a) Branching factor is finite. (b) Cost of each edge is greater than zero. (c) The heuristic function underestimates the distance to the goal. Do you agree or disagree? Justify your answer. FIGURE 5.36 What should be the heuristic value of the state on the left, with respect to the goal state on the right? 7. Show that the node n being expanded by A in Section 5.6.1 (Lemma 7) is in fact identical to node n;, ), . Which of the following is more amenable to parallelization? Best First Search, A IDA , RBFS. Justify your answer. . Figure 5.37 shows part of a search space being explored by RBFS. The double circled nodes are on CLOSED and single circles are on OPEN. The dashed circled nodes and edges are yet to be generated. The values in the circles are Fvalues. Show how the graph will look after two more nodes are expanded. Mark the node that will be inspected next in the resulting graph. 10. Implement a program to accept two strings from the vocabulary C, A, G, T and align the two strings. Assume the following costs. A mismatch costs 3 and a gap insertion costs 2 units. Two matching letters incur a cost of 0. Allow the user to change these costs and observe the alignments produced. Display the aligned sequences and the cost of the solution. . Construct a map of your city or locality. Assign costs of edges based on the length of roads and the amount of traffic expected on that road. Implement the Beam Stack Search and the A algorithm for route finding. Compare the performance of the two algorithms in terms of nodes inspected and solution found. Try different beam widths. oO ow FIGURE 5.37 A graph being explored by RBFS. Numbers in the nodes denote f-values. 12. Simulate the DCBSS algorithm on the graph in Figure 5.37 with a beam width 2. What are the successors of nodes F and G in the layer that follows? Assume that h(n) 0 for all nodes. Try the algorithm with an admissible heuristic function (with