ment when the rule is applied or the constraint propagated across it. Further, propagation happens only through those components that are connected, and only those can extend a given environment. In this way, the connectivity guides the extensions in the environments. Measurements There are two ways that conflicts are generated. One, when a discrepancy occurs between an observed value and a predicted value. Then tracing the justifications of the derived values an environment is assembled, which may lead to a conflict. GDE caches the reasoning it does, while generating predictions as justifications in the ATMS. This means that while exploring for conflicts, it can exploit the stored justifications. For each discrepancy, the system searches for different environments (assumptions) that are consistent with the discrepancy. In the example we have been following, first tracing back the derived values to the inputs leads to M, M2, A . Next, instead of tracing E, via its source Co, the search tries to trace (propagate) it via Do. This leads to dropping Mz and adding Az and subsequently M3 to the environment. Second, when one has exhausted the (minimal) conflicts that can be generated by a set of observations, then additional observations or measurements need to be made. In our example, the measurement can be made at one of three internal points. The first is C,, or equivalently D,, since conduits are assumed to be free of faults. The second is F;, or equivalently Cz or Do. The third is at E or equivalently C3. Let us say we make a measurement at C,. Consider three different values that the measurement could yield. C1 4. This will lead to a conflict M, . This would in turn imply Ab(M;) and the minimal candidate would be M, . The value F, 10 would be consistent with C, 4. C, 6. This would exonerate M, and would lead to a conflict A,, Mo , or A;, Az, M3 . The reader should verify that the minimal candidates now are Aj , M2, M3 and Mp, Ap . C, 7 or any value not equal to 4 or 