tic variable SHORT (see the functioq for UId(X)). 12 The previous chapter considered methods of representation which extend the expressiveness of classical logic and permit certain types of nonmonotoni C reasoning fuzzy Representations for vague and imprecise concepts were also introduced with set theory and logic. There are other types of uncertainty induced by random phenomena which we have not yet considered. To round out the approaches which are available for commonsense reasoning in Al. we continue in this chapter with theory and methods used to represent probabilistic uncertainties. 6.1 INTRODUCTION We saw in the previous chapter that a TMS deals with uncertainty by permitting new knowledge to replace old knowledge which is believed to be outdated or erroneous. This is not the same as inferring directly with knowledge that can be given a probability rating based on the amount of uncertainty present. In this chapter. we want to examine methods which use probabilistic representations for all knowledge and which reason by propagating the uncertainties from evidence and assertions to conclusions. As before, the uncertainties can arise from an inability to predict outcomes due to unreliable, vague, incomplete, or inconsistent knowledge. Theprobability of an uncertain event A is a measure of the degree of likelihood 107 108 Probabilistic Reasoning Chap. 6 Of occurrence of that event. The set of all possible events is called the sample space, S. A probability measure is a function P(') which maps event ou(co ies E1 E1. , . . - , from S into real numbers and which satisfies the following axioms of probability: I. 0 P(A) S I for any event .4 S. 2. P(S) = I, a certain outcome. 3. E Fo 1 r U E . . f l . E ) = P 0 ( , E f , o ) r + a P ll ( i E IF ,) j + ( th P e ( E E 1 ) a + re mutually exclusive, F'(E1 U E U From these three axioms and the rules of set theory. the basic laws of probability can be derived. Of course, the axioms are not sufficient to compute the probabil