oning about malfunctioning components, we assume that each component in the device is either working or broken. Reiter adopts the predicate Ab(x) introduced by McCarthy (see Section 17.1.2) to indicate that a component is abnormal or broken. The designed behaviour of a component is as expected, only as long as the component is not broken. For the adder and the multiplier we can write, Multiplier(M) Ab(M) D Product(output(M), input,(M), input,(M)) Adder(A) Ab(A) D Sum(output(A), input,(A), input,(A)) As a corollary, one can infer that if the consequent in the implication is false, then the antecedent must be false too. Assuming that we continue to call a broken component by its category name, one can deduce that it is abnormal (or broken). In the multiplier example above, it means Ab(M) is true . Let SD be the system description of the device. SD is the set of FOL sentences as described above. This includes the component definitions and also the structure description. Let COMP be the set of components in the system. Let MA stand for mode assignment, as described in (Struss, 2008), describing the status of each component. Let MAox be the mode assignment when the system is functioned correctly (as expected or designed). Then for each component cje COMP, we have a sentence 7Ab(c;)) in MAgoxasserting that c; is okay. Let OBS be a set of observations about a system. When the system works as expected, the set of sentences SD U OBS is consistent. That is, one cannot derive a contradiction (represented by L) from them. SDU MAog VU OBS L This happens for example when, OBS Aq 3, By 2, Az 3, Bo 2, Az 3, Bz 2, Fy 12, Fo 12 However, if the set of observations instead are, OBS A; 3, By 2, Ap 3, Bo 2, A3 3, B3 2, F, 10, Fo 12 where F, 10 is a different value, then the system description SD and observations OBS are no longer consistent. That is, SD U MAog U OBS EL This implies that there is some statement in SD U MAox that is leading to the contradiction. This can only be in MAox, s