ents or ancestors. The blood group of a child could take on one of the four possible. phenotypes O, A, B or AB. Further each gene for the blood type can have values 0, [ or 2. These are called Alleles, A set of these form a gene-pair called Genotypes, which determine the blood group (phenotype). The table below sbows the genotypes and their corresponding phenotypes. Thus, if the gene value from the male is 0 and that from the female is 1, then the offspring's genotype is 01. This confers the offspring a phenotype of 'A' (blood group). Alleles differ for different kinds of genes and in the biological world their order (01 or 10) may not play an important role, 458 Artificial intelligence EE INANE Blood Group Genotype (Phenotype) 00 As the child (offspring) matures to an adult, it becomes capable of producing gametes viz. sperms in case of a male and eggs in case of a female. There are times when some of the genes tend to mutate (change their values from one to another) randomly. Such mutation is attributed to unusual physical phenomena like exposure to chemicals, cosmic radiation or some biological effects. Individuals that adapt better to the given environment have higher chances of survival while the others die out over time. Naturally the surviving ones are those that give rise to the next generation of offsprings who in turn inherit the qualities of their parents. Over a number of generations those individuals that inherit traits that aid in survival and reproduction become more predominant in th population while others that possess undesirable and hannful traits are forced to recede into oblivion. The surviving ones thus exhibit characteristics that are more adapted to their environment. This theory is called the Natural Screening Process or Darwinian Evolution. 23.2 GENETIC ALGORITHMS (GAs) Genetic Algorithms are based on the theory of natural selection and work on generating a set of random solutions and making them compete in an arena where only the fittest s