In the last four, we discuss approaches to the implementation of such reasoning in problem-solving programs. For more detailed descriptions of many of these systems, see the papers in Ginsberg [1987]. 7.2 LOGICS FOR NONMONOTONIC REASONING Because monotonicity is fundamental to the definition of first-order predicate logic, we are forced to find some alternative to support nonmonotonic reasoning. In this section, we look at several formal approaches to doing this. We examine several because no single formalism with all the desired properties has yet emerged (although there are some attempts, e.g., Shoham [1987] and Konolige [1987], to present a unifying framework for these several theories), In particular, we would like to find a formalism that does all of the following things: e Defines the set of possible worlds that could exist given the facts that we do have. More precisely, we will define an interpretation of a set of wff s to be a domain (a set of objects) D, together with a function that assigns: to each predicate, a relation (of corresponding arity); to each n-ary function, an operator that maps from D into D; and to each constant, an element of D. A model of a set of wff s is an interpretation that satisfies them. Now we can be more precise about this requirement. We require a mechanism for defining the set of models of any set of wff s we are given. Provides a way to say that we prefer to believe in some models rather than others. Symbolic Reasoning Under Uncertainty 151 ART ARSENE TINE e Provides the basis for a practical implementation of this kind of reasoning. e Corresponds to our intuitions about how this kind of reasoning works. In other words, we do not want vagaries of syntax to have a significant impact on the conclusions that can be drawn within our system. As we examine each of the theories below, we need to evaluate how well they perform each of these tasks. For a more detailed discussion of these theories and some comparisons among them, see Re