 to account for starting points, destinations, routes, and
conflict resolution among all parameters. The AI planning techniques generated in hours
a plan that would have taken weeks with older methods. The Defense Advanced Research
Project Agency (DARPA) stated that this single application more than paid back DARPA s
30-yearinvestment in AI.
Robotics: The i Robot Corporation has sold overtwomillion Roomba robotic vacuum
cleaners for home use. The company also deploys the more rugged Pack Bot to Iraq and
Afghanistan, where it is used to handle hazardous materials, clear explosives, and identify
thelocationofsnipers.
Machine Translation: A computer program automatically translates from Arabic to
English, allowing an English speaker to see the headline Ardogan Confirms That Turkey
Would Not Accept Any Pressure, Urging Them to Recognize Cyprus. The program uses a
statisticalmodelbuiltfromexamplesof Arabic-to-English translationsandfromexamplesof
Englishtexttotalingtwotrillionwords(Brants etal.,2007). Noneofthecomputerscientists
ontheteamspeak Arabic,buttheydounderstand statisticsandmachinelearningalgorithms.
These are just a few examples of artificial intelligence systems that exist today. Not
magic or science fiction but rather science, engineering, and mathematics, to which this
bookprovidesanintroduction.
1.5 SUMMARY
This chapter defines AI and establishes the cultural background against which it has devel-
oped. Someoftheimportantpointsareasfollows: Differentpeopleapproach AIwithdifferent goalsinmind. Twoimportant questions to
askare: Areyouconcerned withthinking orbehavior? Doyou wanttomodelhumans
orworkfromanidealstandard?
30 Chapter 1. Introduction In this book, we adopt the view that intelligence is concerned mainly with rational
action. Ideally, an intelligent agent takes the best possible action in a situation. We
studytheproblem ofbuilding agentsthatareintelligent inthissense. Philosophers (going back to 400 B.C.) made AI conceivable by considering the ideas
