es around it that converts signals to symbols and vice versa. It has been empirically observed that neural networks and fuzzy reasoning systems can serve as a bridge between symbolic representations and analog signals, and vice versa. For example, it is much more effective to train a neural network to recognize handwritten characters. It is not easy for us to define rules that capture the myriad variations in human writing; but feed a large number of examples to a neural network, and it soon learns to the symbols that make up words from the (digitized) squiggles one makes with pen and paper. Likewise, a fuzzy controller would take a symbolic command like warm and generate an appropriate signal to a heater in some contraption. The physical systems that interact with the world, for example a microphone to capture sound, or an accelerator pedal in an autonomous vehicle, may operate entirely with signals. This way of looking at things is depicted in Figure 1.4 in which the core symbolic system is shown as having a neuro-fuzzy shell around it. The neuro-fuzzy shell is instrumental in mediating between the symbolic reasoning system and the external continuous world. The subject matter of this textbook is the inner core of symbolic reasoning, and is sometimes referred to as Classical Al. , , Newer am f Symbolic ' reasoning Signal Motor processing Nie wn control Signal Symbol Signal FIGURE 1.4 A model of a cognitive agent. The innermost circle represents Classical Al that is concerned with symbolic reasoning. This is encapsulated in neuro-fuzzy systems that produce and consume the symbols. The outermost layer deals with the external world directly, processing signals and producing motor activity. Incidentally, one must realize that the distinction between analog and digital is entirely of our own making, and mostly reflects the nature of our devices. The earliest radios were made up of vacuum tubes, as were the earliest computers until the invention of the diode. Likewise, 