 . collecting rules together h similar conditions or content call to teduec the number of block transfers required. A noted before, the RF II al,orithiv - scribed III previous chapter. is all of this i fie ol oreani/ai[oil Indexed Organization While organ ,o ion hr content call to reduce block transfers, an i tide sed or 0 non scherne call greatly reduce the time to determine the storage location of a:i item Indexing is accomplished hr organi/ing the intormation in some iy for easy access. One vay to index is by segregating knov ledge into tso or more groups and storing the locations of the kno ledge (or each group in a smaller index tile To build an Indexed tile. kno ledge stored as units Isuch as recordst is first arranged sequentially (sort Cdl hr some key value. The ker can he anr chosen tick) or fields that uniquely identity the record. A second tile containing indices for the record locations is created while the sequential knowledge tile is being loaded Each physical block in this main tile results in one entry in the index tile. The index tile entries 216 Knowledge Organization and Management Chap. 11 are pairs of record key values and block addresses. The key value is the key of the first record stored in the corresponding block. To retrieve an item of knowledge from the main file, the index file is searched to find the desired record key and obtain the corresponding block address. The block is then accessed using this address. Items within the block are then searched sequentially for the desired record. An indexed file contains a list of the entry pairs (k.b) where the values k are the keys of the first record in each block whose starling address is b. Figure 11.3 illustrates the process used to locate a record using the key value of 378. The largest key value less than 378 (375) gives the block address (800) where the item will be found Once the 8(0 block has been retrieved, it can be searched linearh to locate the record with key value 378. This key coul