hinducesasymmetricerrorwithoppositesign. Such
overshooting may continue along an entire trajectory, and the resulting robot motion is far
fromdesirable.
Before we can define a better controller, let us formally describe what went wrong.
Controllers that provide force in negative proportion to the observed error are known as P
controllers. The letter P stands for proportional, indicating that the actual control is pro-
PCONTROLLER
portional totheerroroftherobotmanipulator. Moreformally, lety(t)bethereference path,
parameterized bytimeindex t. Thecontrol a generated bya Pcontrollerhastheform:
t
a K (y(t) x ).
t P t
Herex isthestateoftherobotattimetand K isaconstantknownasthegainparameterof
GAINPARAMETER t P
thecontrolleranditsvalueiscalledthegainfactor); K regulateshowstronglythecontroller
p
corrects fordeviations between the actual state x and the desired one y(t). Inour example,
t
K 1. At first glance, one might think that choosing a smaller value for K would
P P
remedy the problem. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Figure 25.22(b) shows a trajectory
for K .1, still exhibiting oscillatory behavior. Lower values of the gain parameter may
P
simply slow down the oscillation, but do not solve the problem. In fact, in the absence of
friction, the P controller is essentially a spring law; so it will oscillate indefinitely around a
fixedtargetlocation.
Traditionally, problems of this type fall into the realm of control theory, a field of
increasingimportancetoresearchersin AI.Decadesofresearchinthisfieldhaveledtoalarge
numberofcontrollers thataresuperiortothesimplecontrollawgivenabove. Inparticular, a
referencecontrollerissaidtobestableifsmallperturbationsleadtoaboundederrorbetween
STABLE
the robot and the reference signal. It is said to be strictly stable if it is able to return to and
STRICTLYSTABLE
Section25.6. Moving 999
thenstayonitsreference pathuponsuchperturbations. Our Pcontrollerappears tobestable
butnotstrictlystable, sinceitfailstostayanywherenear itsreferen