In statistics, the term graphical model refers to a somewhat
broaderclassthatincludes Bayesiannetworks.Anextensionof Bayesiannetworkscalledadecisionnetworkor
influencediagramiscoveredin Chapter16.
510
Section14.1. Representing Knowledgeinan Uncertain Domain 511
ABayesiannetworkisadirected graph inwhicheachnodeisannotated withquantita-
tiveprobability information. Thefullspecification isasfollows:
1. Eachnodecorresponds toarandomvariable, whichmaybediscrete orcontinuous.
2. Asetofdirectedlinksorarrowsconnectspairsofnodes. Ifthereisanarrowfromnode
X tonode Y,X issaidtobeaparentof Y. Thegraphhasnodirectedcycles(andhence
isadirected acyclicgraph, or DAG.
3. Eachnode X hasaconditionalprobabilitydistribution P(X Parents(X ))thatquan-
i i i
tifiestheeffectoftheparentsonthenode.
Thetopology ofthenetwork the setofnodesandlinks specifies theconditional indepen-
dence relationships that hold in the domain, in a way that will be made precise shortly. The
intuitive meaning ofanarrow istypically that X hasadirect influence on Y,whichsuggests
thatcausesshouldbeparentsofeffects. Itisusuallyeasyforadomainexperttodecidewhat
directinfluencesexistinthedomain mucheasier,infact,thanactuallyspecifyingtheprob-
abilities themselves. Once the topology of the Bayesian network is laid out, we need only
specify a conditional probability distribution for each variable, given its parents. We will
see that the combination of the topology and the conditional distributions suffices tospecify
(implicitly) thefulljointdistribution forallthevariables.
Recallthesimpleworlddescribedin Chapter13,consisting ofthevariables Toothache,
Cavity, Catch, and Weather. We argued that Weather is independent of the other vari-
ables; furthermore, we argued that Toothache and Catch are conditionally independent,
given Cavity. These relationships are represented by the Bayesian network structure shown
in Figure 14.1. Formally, the conditional independence of Toothache and Catch, given
Cavity,isindicated bytheabsence of