artotheonesusedinthezero-sumcase. Fortwoplay-
ers these equations are linear and can be solved with basic linear programming techniques,
butforthreeormoreplayers theyarenonlinearandmaybeverydifficulttosolve.
17.5.2 Repeated games
Sofarwehave looked only atgames that last a single move. The simplest kind of multiple-
movegameistherepeatedgame,inwhichplayersfacethesamechoicerepeatedly, buteach
REPEATEDGAME
time with knowledge of the history of all players previous choices. A strategy profile for a
repeated gamespecifies anaction choice foreach playerateachtimestep foreverypossible
historyofpreviouschoices. Aswith MD Ps,payoffsareadditiveovertime.
Let sconsidertherepeatedversionoftheprisoner sdilemma. Will Aliceand Bobwork
together and refuse to testify, knowing they will meet again? The answer depends on the
details of the engagement. For example, suppose Alice and Bob know that they must play
exactly100roundsofprisoner sdilemma. Thentheybothknowthatthe100throundwillnot
bearepeated game thatis,itsoutcomecanhavenoeffect onfuture rounds and therefore
theywillbothchoose thedominant strategy, testify,inthatround. Butoncethe100thround
is determined, the 99th round can have no effect on subsequent rounds, so it too will have
adominant strategy equilibrium at (testify,testify). By induction, both players willchoose
testify oneveryround,earning atotaljailsentence of500yearseach.
We can get different solutions by changing the rules of the interaction. For example,
suppose that after each round there is a 99 chance that the players will meet again. Then
the expected number of rounds is still 100, but neither player knows for sure which round
674 Chapter 17. Making Complex Decisions
willbethelast. Undertheseconditions, morecooperative behaviorispossible. Forexample,
one equilibrium strategy is foreach player to refuse unless the other player has ever played
PERPETUAL testify. This strategy could be called perpetual punishment. Suppose both players have
PUNISHMENT
adoptedthisstra