 the highest similarity measure is transformed to satisfy the requirements of the new problem. in finding a solution to the new problem using the known mapped solution, it is often nec.sary to disturb some states to find operators which reduced the current-to-goal state differences. With this method, the focus is on the sequence of actions in a given solution, and not on the derivation process itself. Derivational Analogy. This approach requires the storage of much more information than the transformational approach. It is intended that the analogies here be made more on the basis of the complete, reasoning process than on the sequence of solution states for the past problem solutions. In solving newly encountered problems, a plan is formulated using the complete solution trace of the analogue. This plan includes a list of all subgoals derived, alternative solution paths generated and those rejected, each step of the solution process and the decisions made at each step, pointers to knowledge which proved to be useful in the solution, and detailed failure information when a solution cannot be found. This plan is modified to fit the new problem domain. If it cannot produce a solution, other methods are applied such as MEA. Both of the systems developed by Carbonell are useful as analogical research tools. And both worked reasonably well in more than one domain. 20.4 r XPLANATION-BASED LEARNING One of the most active areas of learning research to emerge during the early 1980s is explanation-based learning (also known as explanation-based generalization). This is essentially a form of deductive generalization. It has been successfully demonstrated for the general area of concept learning. In EBL, four kinds of information must be known to the learner in advance. 1. A formal Statement of the goal concept to be learned, 2. At least one positive training example of the concept, 3. Domain theory, which relates to the concept and the training example, and 4. Criteria for con