t a set of clauses S is unsatisfiable, it is necessary to consider only interpretations over a particular set, called the Herbrand universe of S. A set of clauses S is unsatisfiable if and only if a finite subset of ground instances (in which all bound variables have had a value substituted for them) of S is unsatisfiable. The second part of the theorem is important if there is to exist any computational procedure for proving unsatisfiability, since in a finite amount of time no procedure will be able to examine an infinite set. The first part suggests that one way to go about finding a contradiction is to try systematically the possible substitutions and see if each produces a contradiction, But that is highly inefficient. The resolution principle, first introduced by Robinson [1965], provides a way of finding contradictions by trying a minimum number of substitutions. The idea is-to keep clauses in their general form as long as possible and only introduce specific substitutions when they are required. For more details on different kinds of resolution, see Stickel [1988]. 5.4.3 Resolution in Propositional Logic In order to make it clear how resolution works, we first present the resolution procedure for propositional logic. We then expand it to include predicate logic. In propositional logic, the procedure for producing a proof by resolution of proposition P with respect to a set of axioms F is the following. Algorithm: Propositional Resolution 1, Convert all the propositions of F to clause form. 2. Negate P and convert the result to clause form. Add it to the set of clauses obtained in step 1. 3. Repeat until either a contradiction is found or no progress can be made: (a) Select two clauses. Call these the parent clauses. (b) Resolve them together. The resulting clause, called the resolvent, will be the disjunction of all of the literals of both of the parent clauses with the following exception: If there are any pairs of literals Z and a L such that one of the pa