 the values from the evaluation function. The letter labels A ... X below the leaves are names of the leaves. Show the order in which algorithm SSS will inspect the nodes, explaining all the decisions made, along with diagrams where appropriate. What is the minimax value of the game? Y QW) O VY? OO 45 78 95 90 85 8O 81 70 60 70 40 30 A BC DE F GH tI K LMNOP QRS TUVWX FIGURE 8.46 Another small game tree. 17. Compare and contrast the SSS algorithm with AO algorithm. 18. (For Chess enthusiasts) Is the Chess game tree a finite tree or an infinite tree? Can the two players keep repeating some inconsequential moves indefinitely? 19. (For Chess enthusiasts) Consider the following variation on Chess rules. In addition to the other rules a player is allowed to move a piece X onto a square containing his own piece Y. The two pieces then combine to form one piece XY with the mobility of both. It is claimed 4 that with these rules there is a strategy for a player to ensure that game will always end in a draw. Comment. 1 According to popular legends, the chess game was invented by a Brahmin named Sissa. One day the Indian king (rajah) Balhait summoned Sissa and requested the wise man to create a game which would require pure mental skill and oppose the teaching of games in which fate (luck) decides the outcome by the throw of dice. Moreover, the king requested that this new game should also have the ability to enhance the mental qualities of prudence, foresight, valour, judgment, endurance, circumspection, and analytical and reasoning ability. Sissa created the game chaturanga. Chaturanga was a war game, the first to borrow explicitly and extensively from the vocabulary of military conflict. The pieces were the king (rajah), the general (senapati mantri, or modern day queen), the elephant (gaja, or the modern day bishop), the cavalry or horse (ashwa, modern day knight), the chariot (ratha sakata, or modern day rook), and finally, the infantry (sainika bhata, or modern day pawns)