ze the notion of a set by allowing characteristic functions to assume values other than 0 and I For example, we define the notion of a fuzzy set with the characteristic function u which maps from U to a number in the real interval 10.11; that is u:U - 10.11. Thus, we define the fuzzy set A as follows (the - symbol is omitted but assumed when a fuzzy set appears in a subscript): Definition. Let U be a set, denumerable or not, and let x be an element of U. A fuzzy subset A of U is a set of ordered pairs {(X.UA(X))}, for all x in U. where u A(x) is a membership characteristic function with values in 10, 1], and which indicates the degree or level of membership of x in A. A value of MA(X) = 0 has the same meaning as f A(r) = 0, that x is not a member of A, whereas a value of UA(X) = I signifies that x is completely contained in A. Values of O<u A(x)< I signify that .r is a partial member of A. Characteristic functions for fuzzy sets should not be confused with probabilities. A probability is a measure of the degree of uncertainty, likelihood, or belief based on the frequency or proportion of occurrence of an event. Whereas a fuzzy characteristic function relates to vagueness and is a measure of the feasibility or ease of attainment of anevent. Fuzzy sets have been related to possibility distributions which have some similarities to probability distributions, but their meanings are entirely different. Given a definition of a fuzzy set, we now have a means of expressing the notion TALL(x) for an individual x. We might for example, define the fuzzy set A = {tall} and assign values of u4O) = UA(l O) = - - . u4(40) 01 u A(SO) = 0.2, u A(60) = 0.4, u A(70) = 0.6, u A(SO) = 0.91 u A(90) u A(IOO) 1.0. Now we can assign values for individuals noted above as TALL(Pole) = 1.0. and TALL (Joe) = 0.5. Of course, our assignment of values for u A(x) was purely subjective. And to be complete,, we should also assign values to other fuzzy sets associated with linguistic variables such as 