ng probabilities respectively, and the ratio rf(H&E)/rf(E)p(H&L),p(E) then represents the proportion of times event H occurs relative to the occurrence of E. that is, the approximate conditional occurrence of H with E. The conditional probability of even(E given that event H occurred can likewise be written as P(EIH)=p(H&E)/p(H) (6.3) Solving 6.3 for P(H & E) and substituting this in equation 6.1 we obtain one torrn ot Bayes' Rule P(HIE) P(EHP(H) / P(E) 16.4? This equation expresses the notion that the probability of event H occurring when it is known that event E occurred is the same as the probability that j. occurs when it is known that H occurred,, multiplied by the ratio of the probabilities of the two events H and E occurring. As an example of the use of equation 64. consider the problem of determining the probability that a patient has a ceflain disease Dl, given that a Symptom E was observed. We wish to tind I'D! L). Probabilistic Reasoning Chap. 6 110 Suppose now it is known from previous experience that the prior (unconditional) probabilities P(Dl) and P(E) for randomly chosen patients are P(Dl) = 0.05. and P(E) = 0. 15, respectively. Also, we assume that the conditional probability of the observed symptom given that a patient has disease Dl is known from experience to be P(EIDI) = 0.95. Then, we easily determine the value of P(DIE) as P(Dlj E)P (EJDI)P(Dl)/P(E)= (0.95 x O.05/0.15 =0.32 It may be the case that the probability P(E) is difficult to obtain. If that is the case, a different form of Bayes' Rule may be used. To. see this, we write equation 6.4 with R substituted in place of H to obtain P(-111 E) Next, we divide equation 6.4 by this result to eliminate P(E) and get P( H IE) = P(EIH)P(H) . (6.5) P(HIE) P(EIH)PIH) has two terms that are ratios of a probability of an Note that equation 6.5 event to the probability of its negation. P(HIE) I P(-HIE) and P(H) / PIN). The ratio of the probability of an event E divided by the probability of its negation 