) in terms of which the others are ultimately defined. This is a natural
way in which to build up the representation of a domain, and it is analogous to the way in
whichsoftwarepackages arebuiltupbysuccessive definitions ofsubroutines fromprimitive
library functions. Notice that there is not necessarily a unique set of primitive predicates;
wecould equally wellhave used Parent,Spouse,and Male. Insomedomains, asweshow,
thereisnoclearly identifiablebasicset.
Notalllogicalsentencesaboutadomainareaxioms. Somearetheorems thatis,they
THEOREM
areentailedbytheaxioms. Forexample,considertheassertionthatsiblinghoodissymmetric: x,y Sibling(x,y) Sibling(y,x).
Is this an axiom ora theorem? In fact, it is a theorem that follows logically from the axiom
thatdefinessiblinghood. Ifwe ASK theknowledge basethissentence, itshouldreturn true.
From a purely logical point of view, a knowledge base need contain only axioms and
no theorems, because the theorems do not increase the set of conclusions that follow from
the knowledge base. From a practical point of view, theorems are essential to reduce the
computational costofderiving newsentences. Without them,areasoning system hastostart
fromfirstprincipleseverytime,ratherlikeaphysicisthavingtorederivetherulesofcalculus
foreverynewproblem.
Section8.3. Using First-Order Logic 303
Not all axioms are definitions. Some provide more general information about certain
predicates without constituting a definition. Indeed, some predicates have no complete defi-
nition because we do not know enough to characterize them fully. For example, there is no
obviousdefinitivewaytocompletethesentence x Person(x) ...
Fortunately, first-order logic allows us to make use of the Person predicate without com-
pletelydefiningit. Instead, wecanwritepartialspecifications ofproperties thateveryperson
hasandproperties thatmakesomething aperson: x Person(x) ... x ... Person(x).
Axioms can also be just plain facts, such as Male(Jim) and Spouse(Jim,Laura).
Such facts form 