inginferencemethodsfor
atree-structured Bayesnet(see Chapter14).
There are two criteria for evaluating a configuration. First, an image rectangle should
looklikeitssegment. Forthemoment,wewillremainvagueaboutpreciselywhatthatmeans,
butweassumewehaveafunction thatscoreshowwellanimagerectanglematchesabody
i
segment. For each pair of related segments, we have another function that scores how
well relations between a pair of image rectangles match those to be expected from the body
segments. The dependencies between segments form a tree, so each segment has only one
parent, and we could write i,pa(i) . All the functions will be larger if the match is better,
so we can think of them as being like a log probability. The cost of a particular match that
allocates imagerectangle m tobodysegmentiisthen
(cid:12) i (cid:12) i (m i ) i,pa(i) (m i ,mpa(i) ).
i segments i segments
Dynamicprogramming canfindthebestmatch,because therelational modelisatree.
Itisinconvenienttosearchacontinuousspace,andwewilldiscretizethespaceofimage
rectangles. We do so by discretizing the location and orientation of rectangles of fixed size
(the sizes may be different for different segments). Because ankles and knees are different, we need to distinguish between a rectangle and the same rectangle rotated by 180 . One
couldvisualize theresultasasetofverylargestacks ofsmallrectangles ofimage, cutoutat
different locations and orientations. There is one stack per segment. We must now find the
best allocation of rectangles to segments. This will be slow, because there are many image
rectangles and,forthemodelwehavegiven,choosing therighttorsowillbe O(M6)ifthere
are M image rectangles. However, various speedups are available foran appropriate choice
of , and the method is practical (Figure 24.23). Themodel is usually known asa pictorial
PICTORIAL structuremodel.
STRUCTUREMODEL
Recallourassumptionthatweknowwhatweneedtoknowaboutwhatthepersonlooks
like. If weare matching a person in a single image, the most u