hough assertions such as the ones we used to reason about Dick s pacifism look like rules, they are, in this theory, just ordinary wff s which can be manipulated by the standard rules for combining logical expressions. So, for example, given AAMB->B AAMBOB we can derive the expression MBB In the original formulation of NML, the semantics of the modal operator M, which is self-referential, were unclear. A more recent system, Autoepistemic Logic [Moore, 1985] is very similar, but solves some of these problems. 4 Reiter s original notation had :M in place of : . but since it conveys no additional information, the M is usually omitted. Symbolic Reasoning Under Uncertainty 153 RS OSE BE AE SSCA Bh TAR NAAT A SEN TOE? EFI Default Logic An alternative logic for performing default-based reasoning is Reiter's Default Logic (DL) [Reiter, 1980], in which a sew class of inference rules is introduced. In this approach, we allow inference rules of the forin+ A:B C Such a rule should be read as, If A is provable and it is consistent to assume B then conclude C. As you can see, this is very similar in intent to the nonmonotonic expressions that we used in NML. There are some important differences between the two theories, however. The first is that in DL the new inference rules are used as a basis for computing a set of plausible extensions to the knowledge base. Each extension corresponds to one maximal! consistent augmentation of the knowledge base.> The logic then admits as a theorem any expression that is valid in any extension. If a decision among the extensions is necessary to support problem solving, some other mechanism must be provided. So, for example, if we return to the case of Dick the Republican. we can compute two extensions, one corresponding to his being a pacifist and one corresponding to his not being a pacifist. The theory of DL does not say anything about how to choose between the two, But see Reiter and Criscuolo [1981], Touretzky [1986], and Rich [ 1983] for 