o be able to infer that John ate dinner, since the restaurant script could have been activated. Since all of the events in the story correspond to the sequence of events predicted by the script, the pregram could infer that the entire sequence predicted by the script occurred normally. Thus it could conclude, in particular, that John ate. In their ability to predict unobserved events, scripts are similar to frames and to other knowledge structures that represent stereotyped situations. Once one of these structures is activated in a particular situation, many predictions can be made. A second important use of scripts is to provide a way of building a single coherent interpretation from a collection of observations. Recall that a script can be viewed as a giant causal chain. Thus it provides information about how events are related to each other. Consider, for example, the following story: Susan went out to lunch. She sat down at a table and called the waitress. The waitress brought her a menu and she ordered a hamburger. Now consider the question Why did the waitress bring Susan a menu? The script provides two possible answers to that question: e Because Susan asked her to. (This answer is gotten by going backward in the causal chain to find out what caused her to do it.) e So that Susan could decide what she wanted to eat. (This answer is gotten by going forward in the causal chain to find out what event her action enables.) A third way in which a script is useful is that it focuses attention on unusual events. Consider the following story: John went to a restaurant. He was shown to his table. He ordered a large steak. He sat there and waited for a long time. He got mad and left. The important part of this story is the place in which it departs from the expected sequence of events in a restaurant. John did not get mad because he was shown to his table. He did get mad because he had to wait to be served. Once the typical sequence of events is interrupted, the script 