n appropriately sized, multidimensional joint probability table). Each such case becomes a hypothesis for our investigating agent, and the application of the Bayes rule as described earlier comes to the rescue. The interested reader should compare the application of the Bayes s rule for determining the MAP hypothesis, with backward chaining in logic described in Chapter 12. In that sense, Bayesian reasoning gives us a sound form of diagnosis. Diagnosis and prediction address different kinds of uncertainty. Prediction is concerned with events that are to happen. Then a probabilistic statement talks about how likely it is for the event to happen. The inference is aligned with the direction of causation. Diagnosis on the other hand, is the process of unravelling the hidden but existing state of the world, which may be shrouded in uncertainty. A medical doctor may begin with several hypotheses when a patient first consults her. But as she gets more evidence, by means of tests or queries, she homes in on the actual disease or affliction the patient is suffering from. In the world, the effect follows the cause. Diagnosis involves determining the cause knowing the effect. Sometimes, we form associations between the effect and a cause as a rule or conditional probability. For example, we might say P(Malaria HighFever) 0.6, saying that whenever we see high fever we can conclude with probability 0.6 that the patient has malaria. On the surface this looks again analogous to the application of Modus Ponens which is a sound rule of inference, HighFever HighFever 5 Malaria an Malaria But in fact it is not the case, because the causal relation is between Malaria and HighFever and not the other way round. If one were to convert this to a logical relation, one might say that (Malaria ... HighFever) is true but (HighFever Malaria) is false. In that sense, inferring the disease from symptoms is in fact doing the following inference. HighFever Malaria HighFever o Malaria This inference