rice) breaks into uncharted territory. This is a characteristic of experience. Experiential knowledge, in general, is unable to deal with situations that have changed beyond recognition. A poignant example of that is the inability or the unwillingness of humankind to accept the dangers of climate change, because we have not experienced it in recorded history, and model based answers are imprecise and open to debate. Another distressing example, where we did pay the cost of missing knowledge, was when the Tsunami devastated the coastlines of southern Asia in December 2004. The previous recorded case of a Tsunami in India was in 1941, too far back in time to exist in the minds of people when it struck again. Japanese folklore, on the other hand, is replete with tales of the Tsunami, and a child there would have understood the import of the unusual receding of the sea waters. Memory, knowledge and experience are not just the forte of individuals but also of societies and organizations. The emergence of language has made it possible for societies to share and pass on knowledge. Often such knowledge is part of folklore and gets distilled in the form of customs and rituals, which may survive long after the reasoning behind them is remembered. 15.1 Case Based Reasoning Human memory is complex. We have the ability to absorb information continuously since our birth. We constantly generalize from our experiences, and yet are able to recall individual episodes from our memories. Very often, these are buried deep inside somewhere, and are remembered by a process of reminding that is still not well understood. Cognitive scientists talk of long term memory and short term memories. The notion of organizing information in knowledge structures has long been a subject matter of interest. Much of this work has been done from the perspective of perception and understanding, but is also applicable to planning and problem solving. Various terms have been used for the process of aggregati