gures based on the position of the mid figures are described below. The four figures in Aristotelian logic. Each sentence is made of two terms. First figure Second figure Third figure Fourth fis premise middle - major major - middle middle - major major - mi yremise minor - middle minor - middle middle - minor middle - n sion minor - major minor - major minor - major minor - m is some dispute whether Aristotle discovered the fourth figure or not (Smith, 2007). nood of a syllogism was determined by the order of the types of sentences, A, E, and O ions are valid. Each valid combination had a mnemonic by which there were known". The followin: F valid syllogism. We use the following short forms, mid middle, min minor, maj maijor. The 19 valid syllogisms in Aristotelian logic. Figure Major premise Minor premise Conclusion Mnemoi first A-mid-maj A-min-mid A-min-maj Barbara first E-mid-maj A-min-mid E-min-maj Celarent first A-mid-maj I-min-mid I-min-maj Darii first E-mid-maj I-min-mid O-min-maj Ferio second E-maj-mid A-min-mid E-min-maj Cesare second A-maj-mid E-min-mid E-min-maj Camesti second E-maj-mid I-min-mid O-min-maj Festimo second A-maj-mid O-min-mid O-min-maj Baroco hird A-mid-maj A-mid-min I-min-maj Darapti third E-mid-maj A-mid-min O-min-maj Felapto. third I-mid-maj A-mid-min I-min-maj Disamis third A-mid-maj I-mid-min I-min-maj Datisi hird O-mid-maj A-mid-min O-min-maj Bocardc hird E-mid-maj I-mid-min O-min-maj Ferison fourth A-maj-mid A-mid-min I-min-maj Braman fourth A-maj-mid E-mid-min E-min-maj Camene fourth I-maj-mid A-mid-min I-min-maj Dimaris fourth E-maj-mid A-mid-min O-min-maj Fesapo fourth E-maj-mid I-mid-min O-min-maj Fresisor 2se Aristotle considered the syllogisms in the first figure as perfect. They were perceived to be c 2asoning, and could be taken to be true without justification. The other syllogisms, though valid as wv 2d to require a derivation. In fact Aristotle took only Barbara and Celarent as given, and proved all tt wicz, 1951). ne sens