tselfintoandtheactionsitcantake. The
agent can use this information to consider subsequent stages of a hypothetical journey via
eachofthethreetowns,tryingtofindajourneythateventuallygetsto Bucharest. Onceithas
found a path on the map from Arad to Bucharest, it can achieve its goal by carrying out the
driving actions that correspond to the legs of the journey. In general, an agent with several
immediate options ofunknown valuecan decide whattodobyfirst examining future actions
thateventually leadtostatesofknownvalue.
To be more specific about what we mean by examining future actions, we have to
be more specific about properties of the environment, as defined in Section 2.3. For now,
1 Weareassumingthatmostreadersareinthesamepositionandcaneasilyimaginethemselvestobeasclueless
asouragent.Weapologizeto Romanianreaderswhoareunabletotakeadvantageofthispedagogicaldevice.
66 Chapter 3. Solving Problemsby Searching
weassume that the environment is observable, so the agent always knows the current state.
Forthe agent driving in Romania, it s reasonable to suppose that each city on the maphas a
sign indicating its presence to arriving drivers. Wealso assume the environment is discrete,
so at any given state there are only finitely many actions to choose from. This is true for
navigating in Romania because each city isconnected toa small numberof other cities. We
willassumetheenvironment isknown,sotheagentknowswhichstatesarereachedbyeach
action. (Having an accurate map suffices to meet this condition for navigation problems.)
Finally, we assume that the environment is deterministic, so each action has exactly one
outcome. Under ideal conditions, this is true for the agent in Romania it means that if it
chooses to drive from Arad to Sibiu, it does end up in Sibiu. Of course, conditions are not
alwaysideal, asweshowin Chapter4.
Under these assumptions, the solution to any problem is a fixed sequence of actions. Ofcourse! onemightsay, Whatelsecoulditbe? Well,ingeneralitcouldbeabra