 club was at Saily s house. Ellen is not married. Can you construct resolution proofs to demonstrate the truth of each of these statements given the five facts listed above? Do so if possible. Otherwise, add the facts you need and then construct the proofs. 6. Assume the following facts: e Steve only likes easy courses. Science courses are hard. Using Predicate Logic 127 al e All the courses in the basketweaving department are easy. e BK301 is a basketweaving course. Use resolution to answer the question, What course would Steve like? . In Section 5.4.7, we answered the question, When did Marcus die? by using resolution to show that there was a time when Marcus died. Using the facts given in Fig. 5.4, and the additional fact Vx: Wt, : dead(x, t) 3 At, : gt(t, t) A died(x, t) there is another way to show that there was a time when Marcus died. (a) Do a resolution proof of this other chain of reasoning. (b) What answer will this proof give to the question, When did Marcus die? . Suppose that we are attempting to resolve the following clauses: loves(father{a), a) sloves(y, x) Vv loves(x, y) (a) What will be the result of the unification algorithm when applied to clause | and the first term of clause 2? (b) What must be generated as a result of resolving these two clauses? {c) What does this example show about the order in which the substitutions determined by the unification procedure must be performed? . Suppose you are given the following facts: Wx, yz: gtx, y) A gt, 2) > atts, 2) Va,b : succla, b) > gt(a,b) Vx 2 mgt(x,x) You want to prove that gt(5,2) Consider the following attempt at a resolution proof: ngt5, 2) ngt(x, y) V gtly, 2) v g(x, z) Six, 21z na{S, ) V ratly, 2) asuecta, b) \V gta, b) yla, 2ib n9t(5, y) Vv ~suecly, 2) Tatlx, y) Vv Tally, Z) v g Mx. 2) 5ix, yiz =gt(5, y) V rgtly, y) V ssuccly, 2) (a) What went wrong? (b) What needs to be added to the resolution procedure to make sure that this does not happen? 128 10. il. 13. Artificial Intelligence The ans