 was used as part of several language understanding systems built by Schank and his students SAM. MARGIE. QUALM. and SO on). This component worked in conjunction with an inference component to determine responses to questions about short news and other stories. Given the general content or primitive event for the response, BABEL selects and builds an appropriate conceptual dependency structure which includes the intended word senses. A modified ATN is then used to generate the actual word string for output To determine the proper word sense, BABEL uses a discrimination net. For example, suppose the system is told a story about Joe going into a fast-food restaurant, ordering sandwich and a soft drink in a can, paying, eating, and then leaving. After the understanding part of the system builds the conceptual dependency and script structures for the story, questions about the events could he posed. If asked what Joe had in the restaurant. BABEL would first need to determine the conceptual Sec. 12.6 Natural Language Generation 263 INGEST fl.i(P smoke' N/" \ES N7/1 "\ES through use air' use mouth? "drink" "smoke" NO/ \VES N0/ \YES use use use use Figure 12.14 Discrimination net for "ingest" "eat" "inhale" ."breathe" INGEST category of the question in order to select the proper conceptual -dependency pattern to build. The verb in the query determines the appropriate primitive categories of eat and drink as being INGEST. 'To determine the correct sense of INGEST as eat and drink a discrimination net like that depicted in Figure 12.14 would be used. A traversal of the discrimination net leads to eat and drink, using the relation from have and sandwich as being taken through the mouth and soft drink as fluid. Once a conceptual dependency framework has been selected, the appropriate words must be chosen and the slots filled. Functions are used to operate on the net to complete it syntactically to obtain the correct tense, mood, form, and voice. When completed, a modified ATN 