issible, hisadmissible;itisalsoeasytoprovethat
hisconsistent. Furthermore, hdominatesallofitscomponent heuristics.
3.6.3 Generating admissibleheuristics from subproblems: Patterndatabases
Admissible heuristics canalsobederived fromthesolution costofasubproblemofagiven
SUBPROBLEM
problem. For example, Figure 3.30 shows a subproblem of the 8-puzzle instance in Fig-
ure3.28. Thesubproblem involves gettingtiles1,2,3,4intotheircorrectpositions. Clearly,
the cost of the optimal solution of this subproblem is a lower bound on the cost of the com-
pleteproblem. Itturnsouttobemoreaccuratethan Manhattan distance insomecases.
Theideabehind patterndatabases istostore theseexactsolution costs foreverypos-
PATTERNDATABASE
sible subproblem instance in our example, every possible configuration of the four tiles
and the blank. (The locations of the other four tiles are irrelevant for the purposes of solv-
ing the subproblem, but moves of those tiles do count toward the cost.) Then we compute
an admissible heuristic h for each complete state encountered during a search simply by
DB
lookingupthecorrespondingsubproblemconfigurationinthedatabase. Thedatabaseitselfis
constructed bysearchingback13 fromthegoalandrecordingthecostofeachnewpatternen-
countered; theexpenseofthissearchisamortized overmany subsequent problem instances.
Thechoiceof1-2-3-4 isfairlyarbitrary; wecouldalsoconstruct databases for5-6-7-8,
for2-4-6-8, andsoon. Eachdatabaseyieldsanadmissibleheuristic, andtheseheuristics can
be combined, as explained earlier, by taking the maximum value. A combined heuristic of
thiskindismuchmoreaccuratethanthe Manhattandistance; thenumberofnodesgenerated
whensolvingrandom 15-puzzles canbereducedbyafactorof1000.
One might wonder whether the heuristics obtained from the 1-2-3-4 database and the
5-6-7-8couldbeadded,sincethetwosubproblems seemnottooverlap. Wouldthisstillgive
an admissible heuristic? The answer is no, because the solutions of the 1-2-3-4 subproblem
and the 5-6-7-8 subproblem 