proposed (Tversky. 1977). Such measures may be adapted to give more realistic results for similarity measures in Al applications where context and purpose should influence the similarity comparisons. Let 0 = {Oi .0, ........ the universe of objects of interest andlet A he the set of iittributes or features used to represent o A similarity measure s.hich ts a function of three disjoint sets of attributes common t O iny two objects A, and 4 is given as s(A,.A) Et A, &A,. 4, - A,. A, - A, 1(2) where It, & A, is the set of features common to both o, and o,. A, - .11 the set of features belonging to o, and not o. and A, A, is the set of featurcs belonging to o. and not o,. The function F is a real valued nonnegative function. Under tamrly general assumptions equation 10.2 can be written as s(A,,A,) = af(A, & A,,) hf(A, -- .4,) - cf(A, A) l U.3 for some a.b.c 0 and where is an additive inters al metric function. The function f(A) may be chosen as any nonnegative function of the set A. like the numhr of attributes in A or the average distance between points in A. Equation 10 .3 may he normalized to give values of similarity ranging between 0 and I by writing S(A A7 ) = -------- ft AL &._ _AL_ ( 10 4) f(.4, & A,) a J(A, - .4,) + iii/ 0, A,) for some a,b n'^ 0. - When the representations are graph structures, a similarity measure based on the cost of transfonning one graph into the other may ht used. For example. a procedure to find a measure of similarity between two lahled graph, (described in Secdon 10.5) decomposes the graphs into basic suhgraphs and computes the rninioi,,iii cost to transform either graph into the other one.. subpart -by subpart Fuzzy Measures Finally, we can define a distance between the two fuzi y sets A and B as d(A.B) = - ] - where the total number of Objects k, in the universe is n 198 Matching Techniques Chap. .10 Equation 10.5 measures the mean square difference in universe membership scores between A and B. A score of I implies that the distance