 380 193
(d) After expanding Fagaras Arad
Sibiu Timisoara Zerind
329 374
Arad Fagaras Oradea Rimnicu Vilcea
366 380 193
Sibiu Bucharest
253 0
Figure3.23 Stages in a greedybest-first tree search for Bucharestwith the straight-line
distanceheuristich SLD. Nodesarelabeledwiththeirh-values.
Conditionsforoptimality: Admissibilityandconsistency
ADMISSIBLE The first condition we require for optimality is that h(n) be an admissible heuristic. An
HEURISTIC
admissible heuristic isonethat never overestimates thecost toreach the goal. Because g(n)
is the actual cost to reach n along the current path, and f(n) g(n) h(n), we have as an
immediate consequence that f(n) never overestimates the true cost of a solution along the
currentpaththrough n.
Admissible heuristics are by nature optimistic because they think the cost of solving
the problem is less than it actually is. An obvious example of an admissible heuristic is the
straight-line distance h that we used in getting to Bucharest. Straight-line distance is
SLD
admissible because theshortest pathbetweenanytwopoints isastraight line, sothestraight
Section3.5. Informed(Heuristic)Search Strategies 95 linecannot beanoverestimate. In Figure3.24,weshowtheprogressofan A treesearchfor
Bucharest. Thevaluesof g arecomputed fromthestepcosts in Figure3.2,andthevalues of
h aregivenin Figure3.22. Noticeinparticularthat Bucharestfirstappearsonthefrontier
SLD
at step (e), but it is not selected forexpansion because its f-cost (450) is higher than that of
Pitesti (417). Anotherwaytosay this isthatthere mightbeasolution through Pitesti whose
costisaslowas417,sothealgorithm willnotsettleforasolution thatcosts450.
Asecond, slightly strongercondition called consistency (orsometimes monotonicity)
CONSISTENCY
isrequired only forapplications of A tograph search.9 Aheuristic h(n)isconsistent if, for
MONOTONICITY
(cid:2)
every node n and every successor n of n generated by any action a, the estimated cost of
(cid:2)
reaching the goal from n is no greate