 For example, the wi Ts (-P V Q V R) & (-P V Q) & R and (F' & Q & R) V (Q & R) V P are in conjunctive and disjunctive normal forms respectively. It can be shown that an Y wft can he transti'riiied into either normal form. 4.5 CONVERSION TO CLAUSAL FORM As noted earlier, we are interested in mechanical inference by programs using symbolic FOPL expressions. One method we shall examine is called resolution. It requires that all statements be converted into a normalized clausal form. We define a (louse as the disjunction of a number of literals. A ground clause is one in which no variables (cur in the expression. A Horn clause is a clause with at most one positive literal. To transform a sentence into clausal form requires the following steps: eliminate all implication and equivalence symbols. move negation symbols into individual atoms, rename variables if necessary so that all remaining quantifiers have different variable assignments, replace existentially quantified variables with special functions and eliminate the corresponding quantifiers, drop all universal quantifiers and put the remaining expression into CNF (disjunctions are moved down to literals), and drop all conjunction symbols writjpg each clause previously connected by the conjunctions on a separate line. These steps are described in more detail below. But first, we describe the process of eliminating the existential quantifiers through a substitution process. This process requires that all such variables be replaced by something called Skoleni functions, arbilr ry functions which can always assume a correct value required of an existentially quantified variable. For simplicity in what follows, assume that all quantifiers have been properly moved to the left side of the expression, and each quantifies a different variable. Skolemization. the replacement of existentially quantified variables, with Skolem functions and deletion of the respective quantifiers, is then accomplished as follows: I. If the first