unctured basketballs arenotspherical); wedealwiththeseexceptions later.
Although subclass and member relations are the most important ones for categories,
we also want to be able to state relations between categories that are not subclasses of each
other. Forexample, if wejust say that Males and Females are subclasses of Animals, then
we have not said that a male cannot be a female. We say that two or more categories are
disjoint if they have no members in common. Andeven if weknow that males and females
DISJOINT
are disjoint, we will not know that an animal that is not a male must be a female, unless
EXHAUSTIVE we say that males and females constitute an exhaustive decomposition of the animals. A
DECOMPOSITION
disjointexhaustivedecompositionisknownasapartition. Thefollowingexamplesillustrate
PARTITION
thesethreeconcepts:
Disjoint( Animals,Vegetables )
Exhaustive Decomposition( Americans,Canadians,Mexicans ,
North Americans)
Partition( Males,Females ,Animals).
(Note that the Exhaustive Decomposition of North Americans is not a Partition, because
somepeoplehavedualcitizenship.) Thethreepredicates aredefinedasfollows:
Disjoint(s) ( c ,c c s c s c (cid:7) c Intersection(c ,c ) )
1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2
Exhaustive Decomposition(s,c) ( i i c c c s i c )
2 2 2
Partition(s,c) Disjoint(s) Exhaustive Decomposition(s,c).
Categories can also be defined by providing necessary and sufficient conditions for
membership. Forexample,abachelorisanunmarriedadultmale:
x Bachelors Unmarried(x) x Adults x Males .
Aswediscuss in thesidebar onnatural kinds onpage 443, strict logical definitions forcate-
goriesareneitheralwayspossible noralwaysnecessary.
12.2.1 Physicalcomposition
The idea that one object can be part of another is a familiar one. One s nose is part of one s
head, Romania is part of Europe, and this chapter is part of this book. We use the general
Part Of relationtosaythatonethingispartofanother. Objectscan begroupedinto Part Of
hierarchies, reminiscent ofthe Subset hierarchy:
Part 