ted apersuasive agenda inhis1950
article Computing Machinery and Intelligence. Therein, he introduced the Turing Test,
machine learning, genetic algorithms, and reinforcement learning. He proposed the Child
Programmeidea,explaining Insteadoftryingtoproduceaprogrammetosimulatetheadult
mind,whynotrathertrytoproduce onewhichsimulated thechild s? 1.3.2 The birth ofartificialintelligence (1956)
Princeton was home to another influential figure in AI, John Mc Carthy. After receiving his
Ph D there in 1951 and working for two years as an instructor, Mc Carthy moved to Stan-
fordandthento Dartmouth College,whichwastobecometheofficialbirthplace ofthefield.
Mc Carthy convinced Minsky, Claude Shannon, and Nathaniel Rochester to help him bring
together U.S. researchers interested in automata theory, neural nets, and the study of intel-
ligence. They organized a two-month workshop at Dartmouth in the summer of 1956. The
proposal states:10
We propose that a 2 month, 10 man study of artificial intelligence be carried
out during the summer of 1956 at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hamp-
shire. The study is to proceed on the basis of the conjecture that every aspect of
learning or any other feature of intelligence can in principle be so precisely de-
scribedthatamachinecanbemadetosimulateit. Anattemptwillbemadetofind
howtomakemachinesuselanguage, formabstractions andconcepts, solvekinds
of problems now reserved for humans, and improve themselves. We think that a
significant advance can be made in one or more of these problems if a carefully
selectedgroupofscientists workonittogetherforasummer.
There were 10 attendees in all, including Trenchard More from Princeton, Arthur Samuel
from IBM,and Ray Solomonoffand Oliver Selfridgefrom MIT.
Two researchers from Carnegie Tech,11 Allen Newell and Herbert Simon, rather stole
the show. Although the others had ideas and in some cases programs for particular appli-
cations such as checkers, Newell and Simon already had a reasoning program, th