of sets V and E. The elements of V are nodes or vertices and the elements of E are a subset of V X V called edges (or arcs or links). An edge joints two distinct vertices in V. Directed graphs, or digraphs, have directed edges or arcs with arrows. If an arc is directed from node n to n1, node n, is said to be a parent or successor of n,, and n, is the child or successor of n, Undirected graphs have simple edges without arrows connecting the nodes. A path is a sequence of edges connecting two nodes where the endpoint of one edge is the start of its successor. A cycle is a path in which the two end points coincide. A connected graph is a graph for which every pair of vertices is joined by a path. A graph is complete if every element of V x V is an edge. A tree is a connected graph in which there are no cycles, and each node has, at most, one parent. A node with no parent is called the root node, and nodes with no children are called leaf nodes. The depth of the root node is defined as zero. The depth of any other node is defined to be the depth of its parent plus I. Pictorial representations of some graphs and a tree are given in Figure 10.4. Recall that graph representations typically use labeled nodes and .arcs where 14194 Matcj'iing Techniques Chap. 10 Ia) - tel Figure 11)4 Examples iii tat general connected graph. Ib, diraph. I disconnetted graph and idi tree of depth 3 the nudes correspond to entities and the arcs to relations Labels for the nodes and arcs are attribute values. Sets and Bags A set is represented as an unordered list of unique elements such as the set 40 d ) or (black red blue green. A bag is a set which may contain more than one copy of the same member; for example, the list a d e a b d represents a bag with members a, b, d. and e Sets and bags are Structures frequently used in matching operations. 10.3 MEASURES FOR MATCHING Next, we turn to the problem of comparing structures without the use of pattern matching variables. This requires considera