 five positive and negative examples. Give a sequenee of four examples that accomplishes the same goal. In general, what properties of a positive example make it most useful? What makes a negative example most useful? Recall the problem of learning disjunctive concepts in version spaces. Uo. We discussed learning a concept like European car, where a European imported USA car was defined as a car whose origin was either Germany, Italy, or a Britain. Suppose we expand the number of discrete values the slot Europe Japan origin might take to include the values Europe and Imported. Suppose further that we have the following isa hierarchy at our disposal: The diagram reflects facts such as Japanese cars are a subset of imported cars and Italian cars are a subset of European cars. How could we modify the candidate elimination algorithm to take advantage of this knowledge ? Propose new methods of updating tne sets G and S that would allow us to learn the concept European car in one pass through a set of adequate training examples. AM exploited a set of 250 heuristics designed to guide AM s behavior toward interesting mathematical concepts. A classic work by Polya [1957] describes a set of heuristics for solving mathematical problems. Unfortunately, Polya s heuristics are not specified in enough detai] to make them implementable in a program. In particular they lack precise descriptions of the situations in which they are appropriate (ie., the left sides if they are viewed as productioas). Examine some of Polya s rules and refine them so that they could be implemented in a problem-solving program with a structure similar to AM s. Consider the problem of building a program to learn a grammar for a Janguage such as English. Assume that such a program would be providad, as input, with a set of pairs, each consisting of a sentence and a representation of the meaning of the sentence. This is analogous to the experience of a child who hears a sentence and sees something at the sam