ddition, there is substantial empirical evidence (e.g., Tversky and Kahneman [1974] and Kahneman et al. [(982]) that people are very poor probability estimators. e The space that would be required to store all the probabilities is too large. The time required to compute the probabilities is too large. Despite these problems, though, Bayesian statistics provide an attractive basis for an uncertain reasoning system. As a result, several mechanisms for exploiting its power while at the same time making it tractable have been developed. In the rest of this chapter, we explore three of these: e Attaching certainty factors to miles e Bayesian networks e Dempster-Shafer theory We also mention one very different numerical approach to uncertainty, fuzzy logic. There has been an active, strident debate for many years on the question of whether pure Bayesian statistics are adequate as a basis for the development of reasoning programs. (See, for example, Cheeseman [1985] for arguments that it is and Buchanan and Shortliffe [1984] for arguments that it is not.) On the one hand, non Bayesian approaches have been shown to work well for some kinds of applications (as we see below). On the other hand, there are clear limitations to all known techniques. In essence, the jury is still out. So we sidestep the issue as much as possible and simply describe a set of methods and their characteristics. 8.2. CERTAINTY FACTORS AND RULE-BASED SYSTEMS In this section we describe one practical way of compromising on a pure Bayesian system. The approach we discuss was pioneered in the MYCIN system [Shortliffe, 1976; Buchanan and Shortliffe, 1984; Shortliffe and Buchanan, 1975], which attempts to recommend appropriate therapies for patients with bacterial infections, It interacts with the physician to acquire the clinical data it needs. MYCIN is an example of an expert system, since it performs a task normally done by a human expert. Here we concentrate on the use of probabilistic reasoning; Chapt