g (EVi L) can he accomplished witt only a single example. in a ilogical learnin'. one example in the form of a known solution or a past experienc is often sufficit.t knowlelge for learning a new sob on. in ERL, one positive raining exam7le is all tk. is needed to develop an ' ation of a target conceg . Of course, muiiple examples may be used in both cf e.se learning types, but iv general, only a single example is required. Analogies play n mportant role in our rca' ning processes, We frei'iently explain or justify on tomenon with 'nothcr. A previous experience c often serve as a framewc L pattern for . ew, a'ialogous experience. We use the 416 Sec. 20.2 Analogical Reasoning and Learning 417 familiar experience as a guide in dealing with the new experience. And, Since SO many of our acts are near repetitions of previous acts, analogical learning has gained a prominant place in our learning processes. EBL methods of learning differ from other methods in that the learned knowledge is valid knowledge. It is derived from a set of facts through a deductive reasoning process and, therefore, is justified, consis'ent knowledge These EBL methods will most likely find use in conjunction with other learning paradigms where it is important to validate newly ?earned knowledge. 20.2 ANALOGICAL REASONING AND LEARNflg Analogies are similarities or likenesses between things otherwise different. Thin which are'similar in some respects tend to be Similar in other respects. The thin' or participants in analogies are unlimited. They may be physical objects, concepts, problems and their solutions, plans, situations, episodes, and so forth. Analogies play a dominant role in human reasoning and learning processes Previously remembered experiences are transformed and extended to fit new unfamiliar situations. T he old experiences provide scenarios or explanations which tend to match the new Situation in some aspects and, therefore, offer the promise of suggesting a solution to the new situat