olution to a problem. Under other conditions it is not optimal. For formal discussions of these conditions, see Gelperin [1977] and Martelli [1977]. 3.3.3 Agendas In our discussion of best-first search in OR graphs, we assumed that we could evaluate multiple paths to the same node independently of each other. For example, in the water jug problem, it makes no difference to the evaluation of the merit of the position (4, 3) that there are at least two separate paths by which it could be reached. This is not true, however, in al] situations, e.g., especially when there is no single, simple heuristic function that measures the distance between a given node and a goal. Consider, for example, the task faced by the mathematics discovery program AM, written by Lenat [1977; 1982]. AM was given a small set of starting facts about number theory and a set of operators it could use to develop new ideas. These operators included such things as Find examples of a concept you already know. AM s goal was to generate new interesting mathematical concepts. It succeeded in discovering such things as prime numbers and Goldbach s conjecture. Armed solely with its basic operators, AM would have been able to create a great many new concepts, most of which would have been worthless. It needed a way to decide intelligently which rules to apply. For this it was provided with a set of heuristic rules that said such things as The extreme cases of any concept are likely to be interesting. Interest was then used as the measure of merit of individual tasks that the system could perform. The system operated by selecting at each cycle the most interesting task, doing it, and possibly generating new tasks in the process. This corresponds to the selection of the most promising node in the bestfirst search procedure. But in AM s situation the fact that several paths recommend the same task does matter. Each contributes a reason why the task would lead to an interesting result. The more such reasons th