ic speech units and a search is made to match prestored patterns against these units. Knowledge about the phonetic composition of words is stored in a lexicon for comparisons. For the top approach, syntax. semantics (the domain), and pragmatics (context) are used to anticipate which words the speaker is likely to have said and f(t) Figure 13.5 Sampling a continuous I', t i3 . . . waveform. 282 Pattern Recognition Chap. 13 direct the search for recognizable patterns. A combined approach which uses both methods has also been applied successfully. Early research in speech recognition concentrated on the recognition of isolated words. Patterns of individual words were prestored and then compared to the digitized input patterns. These early systems met with limited success. They were unable to tolerate variutions.in speaker voices and were highly susceptible to noise. Although important. this early work helped little with the general problem of continuous speech understanding since words appearing as part of a continuous stream differ significantly from isolated words. In continuous speech, words are run together, modified, and truncated to produce a great variation of sounds. Thus, speech analysis must be able to detect different sounds as being part of the same word, but in different contexts. Because of the noise and variability, recognition is best accomplished with some type of fuzzy comparison. In 1971 the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) funded a live year program for continuous speech understanding research (Sti R). The objective of this research was to design and implement systems that were capable of accepting continuous speech from several cooperative speakers using a limited vocabulary of some 1000 words. The systems were expected to run at slower than real time speeds. A product of this research were several systems including HEARSAY I and II, HARPY, and HWIM. While the systems were only moderately successful in achieving their goals, the re