n SD and observations OBS are no longer consistent. That is, SD U MAog U OBS EL This implies that there is some statement in SD U MAox that is leading to the contradiction. This can only be in MAox, since we assume that the system design is correct. The task of diagnosis then is to find a new mode assignment MA, which is consistent with the observations. That is, SDU M4yV OBS 1 Let us take a one component system which is a multiplier, whose inputs are 4 and 7 and the output reads 20. Then, SD Multiplier(M), Multiplier(M) , AB(M) Product(output(M), input,(M), input,(M)) MA ox -Ab(M) OBS input,(M) 4, input,(M) 7, output(M) 20 It follows that, Product(20, 4, 7) which, we know from our knowledge of arithmetic, is a contradiction or a false statement. Since the only statement we can retract is Ab(M), we are compelled to assert Ab(M). That is, the multiplier M has been identified as a faulty component. Since the left hand side of the implication is no longer true, the following set of statements is consistent (does not lead to a contradiction). SD Multiplier(M), Multiplier(M) , Ab(M) Product(output(M), input,(M), input,(M)) MA, 40(M) OBS input (M) 4, input,(M) 7, output(M) 20 In the case of a more complex device with say N components, we have 2 1 different possible mode assignment sets MA, from which to pick one that makes the overall set of sentences consistent. One extreme set is the one in which we assert that aif the N components are broken. Clearly, this will make the set of sentences consistent. However, that would not serve any purpose, because our task is to identify which component is faulty, or which components are faulty. The principle of parsimony (Reiter, 1987) says that a diagnosis is a conjecture that some minimal set of components are faulty . Given that an N-component device is faulty, the task of diagnosis then is to search through various subsets of components to identify a minimal set, which if assumed to be broken would explain, or be consistent with,