n Section 15.3). In the rest of this section, we discuss the second. Montague Semantics Recall that we argued in Section 15.1.1 that the reason syntactic parsing was a good idea was that it produces structures that correspond to the structures that should result from semantic processing. If we investigate this 310 Artificial Intelligence idea more closely, we arrive at a notion called compositional semantics. The main idea behind compositional semantics is that, for every step in the syntactic parsing process, there is a corresponding step in semantic interpretation. Each time syntactic constituents are combined to form a larger syntactic unit, their corresponding semantic interpretations can be combined to form a larger semantic unit. The necessary rules for combining semantic structures are associated with the corresponding rules for combining syntactic structures. We use the word compositional to describe this approach because it defines the meaning of each sentence constituent to be a composition of the meanings of its constituents with the meaning of the rule that was used to create it. The main theoretical basis for this approach is modern (i.e., post-Fregean) logic; the clearest linguistic application is the work of Montague [Dowty et al., 1981; Thomason, 1974]. As an example of this approach to semantic interpretation, let s return to the example that we began in Section 15.1.1. The sentence is J want to print Bill s .init file. The output of the syntactic parsing process was shown in Fig. 15.2, and a fragment of the knowledge base that is being used to define the target representation was shown in Fig. 15.3. The result of semantic interpretation was also shown there in Fig. 15.4. Although the exact form of semantic mapping rules in this approach depends on the way that the syntactic grammar is defined, we illustrate the idea of compositional semantic rules in Fig. 15.18. want > Unit subject: RM, instance: Wanting object: RM; agent: RM, object: RM, print > U