ead to a solution tree such as that shown in Fig. 2.11. In the figure, goals are und are not underlined. The idea of this solution is to reduce the problem Goal: A [BI ie} ON(B,C) and ON(A,B) Fig. 2.10 A Simple Blocks Worid Problem separate problems. The tirst of these new problems, getting B on C, is simple, given the start state. S B on C. The second subgoal is not quite so simple. Since the only operators we have allow us to pick up single blocks at a time, we have to clear off A by rernoving C before we can pick up A and put it on B. This can easily be done. However, if we now try to combine the two subsolutions into one solution, we will fail. Regardless of which one we de first, we will not be able to do the second as we had planned. In this problem, the two subproblems are not independent. They interact and those interactions must be considered in order to arrive at a solution for the entire problem. ON(B,C) and ON (A,B) lerlined. States that have been achieved of getting B on C and A on B to two imply put ON(B,C) ON(A,B) Put Bon C ON(B,C) CLEAR(A) ON(A,B Move A to table Put A on B CLEAR(A) ON(A,B) Problem These two examples, symbolic integration and the blocks world, illustrate t decomposable and nondecomposable problems. In Chapter 3, we present a specific algorithm for problem decomposition, and in Chapter 13, we look at what happens when decomposition is impossible. 2.3.2 Can Solution Steps Be Ignored or Undone? he difference Fig. 2.11 A Proposed Solution for the Blocks between Suppose we are trying to prove a mathematical theorem. We proceed by first proving a lemma that we think will be useful. Eventually, we realize that the lemma is no help at all. Are we in trouble? 38 Artificial Intelligence No. Everything we need to know to prove tbe theorem is still true and in memory, if it ever was. Any rules that could have been applied at the outset can still be applied. We can just proceed as we should have in the first place. All we have lost is the effort t