Fordeterministic actions, theset
ofstatesthatmightbereached is
b (cid:2) RESULT(b,a) s (cid:2) : s (cid:2) RESULTP (s,a)ands b . (4.4)
(cid:2)
Withdeterministic actions, b isneverlargerthan b. Withnondeterminism, wehave
b (cid:2) RESULT(b,a) (cid:15)
s (cid:2) : s (cid:2) RESULTSP (s,a)ands b RESULTSP (s,a),
s b
which may be larger than b, as shown in Figure 4.13. The process of generating
(cid:2)
the new belief state after the action is called the prediction step; the notation b PREDICTION
PREDICTP (b,a)willcomeinhandy. Goaltest: The agent wants a plan that is sure to work, which means that a belief state
satisfies the goal only if all the physical states in it satisfy GOAL-TESTP . The agent
mayaccidentally achievethegoalearlier, butitwon t knowthatithasdoneso. Path cost: This is also tricky. If the same action can have different costs in different
states, then the cost of taking an action in a given belief state could be one of several
values. (Thisgives risetoanew class ofproblems, which weexplore in Exercise 4.9.)
For now we assume that the cost of an action is the same in all states and so can be
transferred directlyfromtheunderlying physical problem.
140 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
1
1 2 1 2
3 4 3 4
3
(a) (b)
Figure 4.13 (a) Predicting the next belief state for the sensorless vacuum world with a
deterministicaction,Right. (b)Predictionforthesamebeliefstateandactionintheslippery
versionofthesensorlessvacuumworld.
Figure 4.14 shows the reachable belief-state space for the deterministic, sensorless vacuum
world. Thereareonly12reachable beliefstatesoutof 28 256possible beliefstates.
Thepreceding definitions enabletheautomaticconstruction ofthebelief-state problem
formulation from the definition of the underlying physical problem. Once this is done, we
can apply any of the search algorithms of Chapter 3. In fact, we can do a little bit more
than that. In ordinary graph search, newly generated states are tested to see if they are
identical toexisting states. 