n be exploited in parts of the understanding process, they are only the beginning. To get the overall picture, we need to think of language as a pair (source language, Natural Language Processing 287 Saree LION HR TR CRONIN ASERRMER TEIN target representation), together with a mapping between elements of each to the other. The target representation will have been chosen to be appropriate for the task at hand. Often, if the task has clearly been agreed on and the details of the target representation are not important in a particular discussion, we talk just about the language itself, but the other half of the pair is really always present. One of the great philosophical debates throughout the centuries has centered around the question of what a sentence means. We do not claim to have found the definitive answer to that question. But once we realize that understanding a piece of language involves mapping it into some representation appropriate to a particular situation, it becomes easy to see why the questions What is language understanding? and What does a sentence mean? have proved to be so difficult to answer. We use language in such a wide variety of situations that no single definition of understanding is able to account for them all. As we set about the task of building computer programs that understand natural language, one of the first things we have to do is define precisely what the underlying task is and what the target representation should look like. In the rest of this chapter, we assume that our goal is to be able to reason with the knowledge contained in the linguistic expressions, and we exploit a frame language as our target representation. 15.1.1 Steps in the Process Before we go into detail on the several components of the natural language understanding process, it is useful to survey ail of them and see how they fit together. Roughly, we can break the process down into the following Pieces: Morphological Analysis Individual words are analyzed into