le to replicate
experiments byusingsharedrepositories oftestdataandcode.
The field of speech recognition illustrates the pattern. In the 1970s, a wide variety of
different architectures and approaches were tried. Many of these were rather ad hoc and
fragile, and were demonstrated on only a few specially selected examples. In recent years,
HIDDENMARKOV approachesbasedonhidden Markovmodels(HM Ms)havecometodominatethearea. Two
MODELS
aspects of HM Msarerelevant. First, theyarebased onarigorous mathematical theory. This
hasallowedspeechresearcherstobuildonseveraldecadesofmathematicalresultsdeveloped
in other fields. Second, they are generated by a process of training on a large corpus of
real speech data. This ensures that the performance is robust, and in rigorous blind tests the
HM Mshavebeenimprovingtheirscoressteadily. Speechtechnology andtherelatedfieldof
handwritten character recognition are already making the transition towidespread industrial
14 Somehavecharacterizedthischange asavictoryofthe neats thosewhothinkthat AItheoriesshouldbe
grounded inmathematicalrigor overthe scruffies thosewhowouldrathertryoutlotsof ideas, writesome
programs, andthenassesswhatseemstobeworking. Bothapproachesareimportant. Ashifttowardneatness
impliesthatthefieldhasreachedalevelofstabilityandmaturity. Whetherthatstabilitywillbedisruptedbya
newscruffyideaisanotherquestion.
26 Chapter 1. Introduction
and consumer applications. Note that there is no scientific claim that humans use HM Msto
recognize speech; rather, HM Ms provide a mathematical framework for understanding the
problem andsupporttheengineering claimthattheyworkwellinpractice.
Machine translation follows the samecourse asspeech recognition. In the1950s there
was initial enthusiasm for an approach based on sequences of words, with models learned
according to the principles of information theory. That approach fell out of favor in the
1960s, butreturnedinthelate1990sandnowdominatesthefield.
Neural networks also fitthis trend. 