about a hearers understanding and his or her knowledge and goals. During the dialog, the system must maintain proper focus and formulate expressions that either query, explain, direct, lead or just follow the conversation as appropriate. The study of language generation falls naturally Into three areas: (I the determination of content. (2) formulating and developing a text utterance plan and (3) achieving a realization of the desired utterances. Content determination is concerned with what details to include in an explana--- tion. a request, a question or argument in order to convey the meanings set forth by the goals of the speaker. This means the speaker must know what the hearer already knows, what the hearer needs to know, and what the hearerwants to know. These topics are related to the domain, task, and discourse context described above. Text planning is the process of organizing the content to be communicated so as to best achieve the goals of the speaker. Realization is the process of mapping the organized content to actual text. This requires that specific words and phrases be chosen and formulated into a syntactic structure. Until about 1980, not much work had been done beyond single sentence generation. Understanding and generation was performed with a single piece of isolated text without much regard given to context and consideration of the hearer. Following this early work, a few comprehensive systems were developed. To complete this section, we describe the basic ideas behind two of these systems. They take different approaches to those taken by the lexical and compositional semantics understanding described in the previous section. Language Planning and Generation with KAMP KAMP is a knowledge and modalities planner developed for the generation of natural language text. Developed by Douglas Appeit (1985), KAMP simulates the behavior of an expert robot named Rob (a terminal) assisting John (a person) in the disassembly and repair of air compressors. K