re the substitution 0 = {sue/x, joe/v, bill!-) is used, results in the Unit clause MOTHER(sue,biil). Linear resolution. When each resolved clause C, is a parent to the clause C,. I (i = I. 2..... n - I) the process is called linear resolution. For example, Cg Oiv en set S of clauses with CO C S, C, is derived by a sequence of resolutions. with some clause BO to get C1, then C1 with some clause B1 to get C, and so on until C. has been derived. Linear input resolution. If one of the parents in linear resolution is always from the original set of clauses (the Be), we have linear input resolution. For example, given the set of clauses S = {PV Q, P V Q. P V 'Q, P V Q} let CO = (P V Q). Choosing B0 = P V Q from the set S and resolving this with CO we obtain the resolvent Q .= C1. B must now be chosen from S and the resolvent of C1 and B1 becomes C, and soon. Unification and resolution give us one approach to the problem of mechanical inference or automated reasoning, but without some further refinements, resolution 6$ Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 can be intolerably inefficient. Randomly resolving clauses in a large set can result in inefficient or even impossible proofs. Typically, the curse of combinatorial explosion occurs. So methods which constrain the search in some way must be used. When attempting a proof by resolution, one ideally would like a minimally unsatisfiable set of clauses which includes the conjectured clause. A minimally unsatisfiable set is one which is satisfiable when any member of the set 'is omitted. The reason for this choir e is that irrelevant clauses which are not needed in the proof but which par1icipte are unnecessary resolutions. They contribute nothing toward the proof. Indeed, they can sidetrack the search direction resulting in a dead end and loss of resources. Of course, the set must be unsatisfiable otherwise a proof is impossible. A minimally unsatisfiable set is ideal in the sense that all clauses are essential and no others are