 is illustrated in Figure 12.9 where the main network calls two subnetworks and an NP and PP network as illustrated in 12.9(b) and (c). The top network in the figure is the top level (sentence) network, and the lower level networks are for NP and PP arc states. The arcs corresponding to these states will be traversed only if the corresponding subnetworks (b) or (c) are successfully traversed. NP S: POP N: Vs O: i AUX :: (a) Top lewl ATN ADJ PP NP N2 N4 POP Ni NPR POP N3 (b) Noun phrase subnetwork NP'_.._E PP POP )c) Prepositional phrase network Figure 12.9 Revursive transition network. 248 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 In traversing a network, it is customary to test the arcs in a clockwise order. Thus, in the top level RTN, the NP arc will be called first. If this arc fails, the arc labeled AUX will be tested next. During the traversal of an RTN, a record must be maintained of the word position in the input sentence and the current state or node position and return nodes to be used as return points when control has been transferred to a lower level network. This information can be maintained as a triple like POS CND RI..IST where POS is the current input word position, CND is the current node, and RUST is the list of return points. The RUST can be maintained as a stack data structure. In Figure 12.9, the arc named POP is used as a dummy are to signal the successful completion of the subnetwork and a return to the node following the arc front it was called. Some other arc types that will be useful in what follows are summarized in Table 12. I. The CAT arc represents a test for a specific word category such as a noun or a verb. When the input word is of the specified category, the CAT test succeeds and the input pointer is advanced to the next word. The JUMP arc may be traversed without satisfying any test condition in which case the word pointer is not advanced when a JUMP arc is traversed. An are labeled with a state, such as NP or PP, is defined as a PUSH a