 grouping. We consider some of these processes in the next section where we review traditional access and retrieval methods used in memory organizations This is followed by a description of less commonly used forms of indexing. A ''smart" expert system can he expected to have thousands or even lens of thousands of rules (or their equivalenti in its KB. A good example is XCON (or RI). an expert system which was developed for the Digital Equipment Corporation to configure their customers' computer systems. XCON has a.rapidly growing KB which, at the present time. Consists of more than 12.000 production rules. Large numbers of rules are needed in systems like this which deal with complex re:'soning tasks. System configuration becomes very complex when the number of components and corresponding parameters is large (several hundred). If each rule contained aboutfour or live conditions in its antecedent or If part and an exhaustive search is used, as many as 40,(X)-50,(XXJ tests could he required on each recognition cycle. Clearly, the time required to perform this number of tests is intolerable. Instead, some form of niemnorv management is needed. We sa one way this problem was solved using a form of indexing with the RETE algorithm described in the y preceding chapter. More direct memor organization approaches to. this problem are considered in this chapter WWee humans five in a dynimic, continually changing environment. To cope Sec. 11.1 Introduction 213 with this change. our memories exhibit some rather remarkable properties We are able to adapt to varied changes in the environment and still improse our pertorivanee This is because our memory sss Iem is continuously adapting through a rrilif,ilion process. Ness knossledge is continual IN being added to our memories. existing knoss I. edge is continualk being revised. and less important knowledge is er,idualk being forgotten. Our memories are continually being reor L'anhlcd to expand ttu r recall and reasoning abilitie