 Semantic analysis and description. - The sequence of these operations is depicted in Figure 14.2. As we proceed through the processing stages of computer vision, the reader will no doubt be impressed by the similarities and parallels one can draw between vision processing and natural language processing. The image-sensor stage in vision corresponds to speech recognition in language understanding, the low and intermediate processing levels of vision correspond to syntactic and semantic language processing respectively, and high level processing, in both cases, corresponds to the process of building and interpreting high level knowledge structures. Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 288 Scene Local processing Object processing Interpretation u WU:_T] Image sensor Low level Inter l m ev e e d l ate High level d S e e s rn c a r n r, t t,n IMAGE PROCESSING STAGES Figure 14.2 Procesung stages in ciniputce vision s ,tcnss Vision Processing Overview The input to a vision system is a two dimensional image collected on some form of light sensitive surface. This surface is scanned by some means to produce a continuous voltage output that is proportional to the light intensity of the image on the surface. The output voltage fix, y) is sampled at a discrete number of x and points or pixel (picture element) positions and converted to numbers. The numbers coirespond to the gray level intensity for black and oxhite images. For color images, the intensity value is comprised of three separate arrays of numbers, one for the intensity value of each of the basic o!ors (red. green, and blue). Thus, through the digitization pr'ocess. the image is transformed from a continuous light source into an airay of numbers s'.hich correspond to the local image in'ens:tl Cs at the corresponding s-s piscl positions on the light sensitise surface. sing the array of number'. certlia low level operations are performed. such as smoothing of nighhoring points to reduce noise. finding outlines of oh1ls 