described in this chapter. Explanation-based learning is a form of deductive learning .where the learner develops a logical explanation of how a positive training example defines a concept. The explanation is developed using the example, the concept definition, and relevant domain theory. A key aspect of the explahation is that it satisfy some operational criteria, possibly through the use of only attributes and predicates that are used in the domain theory and/or the example. The EBL method is a two step process. In the first step, an explanation of the concept is formulated using the training example and domain theory. In the econd, this explanation is generalized by regressing formulae step-by-step back Chap. 20 Exercises through rules in the explanation structure. The final concept, if successful, is a definition which both satisfies the operationality criteria and is also a valid definition of the concept. EXERCISES 20.1. Describe two examples of analogical learning you have experienced recently. 20.2. Why is it that things similar in some ways tend to be similar in other ways? 20.3. Consult a good dictionary and determine the differences between the definitions of analogies, metaphors, and similes. 20.4. Make up three new analogies like the examples given in Section 20.2. 20.5. Relate each of the five steps followed in analogical learning to the following example: Riding a motorcycle is like riding a bicycle with an engine in it. 20.6. Compare the analogical system of Winston to that of Greiner. In what ways do they differ? 20.7. What appears to be more important in mapping from base to target domain, object attributes, object relationships, or both? Give examples to support your conclusions. 20.8. What we the main differences between Carbonell's transformational and derivational systems? 20.8. Define operationality as it applies to explanation-based learning and give an example of it as applied to some task. 20.10. Explain why each of the four kinds of inform