es
thecurrentstate,asdefinedbythepercept.
trivial;itgetsmoreinteresting shortly.) Weuserectangles todenotethecurrentinternalstate
of the agent s decision process, and ovals to represent the background information used in
the process. The agent program, which is also very simple, is shown in Figure 2.10. The
INTERPRET-INPUT function generates anabstracted description ofthecurrentstatefromthe
percept, and the RULE-MATCH function returns the firstrule inthe setof rules that matches
the given state description. Note that the description in terms of rules and matching is
purely conceptual; actual implementations can be as simple as a collection of logic gates
implementing a Booleancircuit.
Simplereflexagentshavetheadmirablepropertyofbeingsimple,buttheyturnouttobe
oflimitedintelligence. Theagentin Figure2.10willworkonlyifthecorrectdecisioncanbe
madeonthebasisofonlythecurrentpercept thatis,onlyiftheenvironmentisfullyobserv-
able. Evenalittle bitofunobservability cancause serious trouble. Forexample, thebraking
rule given earlier assumes that the condition car-in-front-is-braking can be determined from
the current percept a single frame of video. This works if the car in front has a centrally
mounted brake light. Unfortunately, older models have different configurations of taillights,
50 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
brake lights, and turn-signal lights, and it is not always possible to tell from a single image
whetherthecarisbraking. Asimplereflexagentdrivingbehindsuchacarwouldeitherbrake
continuously andunnecessarily, or,worse,neverbrakeatall.
Wecanseeasimilarproblemarisinginthevacuumworld. Supposethatasimplereflex
vacuum agent is deprived of its location sensor and has only a dirt sensor. Such an agent
hasjusttwopossiblepercepts: Dirty and Clean . Itcan Suck inresponseto Dirty ;what
shoulditdoinresponseto Clean ? Moving Left fails(forever)ifithappenstostartinsquare
A,andmoving Right fails(forever)ifithappenstostartinsquare B. Infiniteloopsareoften
unavoidable forsimplere