s in the range 0, 1 , such that higher values reflect higher similarity. The answer depends upon the type of the domain D. It may also depend upon what the values represent. If for example the values come from a physical system in which the values can be represented in qualitative intervals then within an interval, one would have high similarity and across intervals low similarity. For example, we may think of values of temperature of water between room temperature and boiling point as one interval. Then 90 Celsius would be more similar to 70 Celsius than to 102 Celsius because the latter is outside the interval and water goes into a different state. Likewise, if someone has a nine-to-five work schedule then 1630 hours will be more like 1430 hours than 1730 hours. In the absence of such knowledge, we rely upon the type 7 associated with the attribute. The following are the more commonly used types and their similarity functions. Boolean Attributes When the type of the attribute is Boolean then the similarity is also a yes no option. Either they are the same or they are different. SIME oleant VV) 1 if Vv; V; 0 otherwise Numeric Attributes When the values V; and V2 come from an integer or real domain then similarity depends upon the difference or the distance between the two values. But we also need to know the range from which the values come. Consider for example a difference of 3 for numeric values. That is, V1 - V2 30r Vo- Vy 3 How similar are the two values? If the values were V; 2 and V2 5, you might consider them to be less similar than if they were 65 and 68. This is because at a subconscious level, one associates a background range with these numbers. For example, 2 and 5 might be the (very different) weights in kilograms of newborn babies while 65 and 68 might be the (quite similar) weights of two adults. The range of baby weights is much smaller than the range of weights of adults.4 Thus, local similarity between two numeric values V; and V2 can be defined 