mentioned inthetext?
d. Whatkindofmistakewouldbeexpensive?
e. Isitbettertodotoofewthingsortoomany? Why?
23.15 Select five sentences and submit them to an online translation service. Translate
themfrom Englishtoanotherlanguage andbackto English. Ratetheresulting sentences for
grammaticality and preservation of meaning. Repeat the process; does the second round of
Exercises 927
iteration give worse results or the same results? Does the choice of intermediate language
make a difference to the quality of the results? If you know a foreign language, look at the
translation of one paragraph into that language. Count and describe the errors made, and
conjecture whytheseerrorsweremade.
23.16 The D values for the sentence in Figure 23.13 sum to 0. Will that be true of every
i
translation pair? Proveitorgiveacounterexample.
23.17 (Adapted from Knight (1999).) Ourtranslation model assumes that, afterthe phrase
translationmodelselectsphrasesandthedistortionmodelpermutesthem,thelanguagemodel
can unscramble the permutation. This exercise investigates how sensible that assumption is.
Trytounscramble theseproposed listsofphrases intothecorrectorder:
a. have,programming, a,seen,never,I,language, better
b. loves,john,mary
c. is the, communication, exchange of, intentional, information brought, by, about, the
production, perception of, and signs, from, drawn, a, of, system, signs, conventional,
shared
d. created,that,weholdthese, tobe,allmen,truths, are,equal,self-evident
Which ones could you do? What type of knowledge did you draw upon? Train a bigram
model from atraining corpus, and use it tofind thehighest-probability permutation of some
sentences fromatestcorpus. Reportontheaccuracyofthismodel.
23.18 Calculate the most probable path through the HMM in Figure 23.16 for the output
sequence C ,C ,C ,C ,C ,C ,C . Alsogiveitsprobability.
1 2 3 4 4 6 7
23.19 We forgot to mention that the text in Exercise 23.1 is entitled Washing Clothes. Reread the text and answer the questions in Exerc