em. If there is only one peak, eventually the population will stabilise to most members becoming similar to each other and the genetic variation will diminish , leading to fewer changes in future generations (Figure 4.11). This convergence behaviour is somewhat similar to the one in SA, which too starts off jumping about the search space. GeneticAlgorithm() 1 Initialize an initial population of candidate solutions p l..n 2 repeat 3 Calculate the fitness value of each member in p l..n 4 selected 1l..n the new population obtained by picking n members 5 from p l..n with probability proportional to fitness Partition selected l..n into two halves, and randomly mate and 7 crossover members to generate offspring 1l..n 3 With a low probability mutate some members of offspring 9 Replace k weakest members of p l..n with the k strongest members of 10 offspring 1..al ll until some termination criteria 12 return the best member of p 1l..n) FIGURE 4.9 The GA algorithm works by reproducing a population in proportion to fitness, recombines the genes by crossover, and randomly mutates some members in each cycle. Parameter k decides how many of the parent population is to be retained. 4 fin) hK Al Py fw, 1 1 1 1 it 1 bebcocnx npobonooncoesobbooscobdbaosac: soocotdodc 30000 Nodes in the search space FIGURE 4.10 The Initial population may be randomly distributed, but as Genetic Algorithm is run, the population has more members around the peaks. ae fn) 4 fa PCOQOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOTE st Nodes in the search space BO 0908 000000000000000000) FIGURE 4.11 If there is one major peak, then most of the population is expected to converge towards that peak, leading to high similarity in the genetic make-up. The genetic algorithms described here are instances of randomized processes at work. In particular, the mating and crossover is done by random selection from fit members. In the natural world, this process is far from random. Selection of mates is a conscious process in which attraction between op