on nature also provides its own defence mechanism. The body is covered with micro flora that also compete with the pathogens for space and nutrients forming another external line of defence. These mechanisms commence action immediately on the entry of a pathogen and regardless of prior exposure to them. Such reactions are commonplace and uniform for all individuals. The pathogen may still be stubborn and penetrate the skin and cause a local infection. The damaged tissue at the site of infection and the antigenic particles of the pathogen signal a set of macrophages" to secrete chemotactic cytokines to attract more phagocytes'. They also facilitate more fluid and cells to enter tissues at the site of infection. The neutrophils'> and macrophages then destroy the pathogens. Phagocytes that comprise of macrophages and neutrophils possess the capability of devouring and digesting a range of microorganisms and other antigenic particles. This process is known as phagocytosis. An assisting Complement system is activated on the surface of the pathogens to promote phagocytosis and pathogen /ysis ?, Artificial Immune Systems 481 If the invasion is still not stopped it results in the inflammation of the area together with the synthesis of cytokines and other proteins. This is still a general reaction and not specific to the pathogen; nor does the system learn (immune memory) from what it did. Inflammation causes tissues around the area to swell causing increased blood flow, exposing the area to more number of cells. The liver responds to the macrophage cytokines by secreting certain proteins that further promote complement activation and phagocytosis. The macrophage cytokines raise the body temperature and signal the bone marrow to release more phagocytes". In addition they aid in killing infected cells. If the inflammation does not succeed in eliminating the pathogen, the second line of defence viz. the aptive imune sytem, is triggered. This process however could take several 