ces,becausethenumberofgridcellsincreasesexponentially withd,thenumberof
dimensions. Sounds familiar? This is the curse!dimensionality of dimensionality. Second,
thereistheproblemofwhattodowithcellsthatare mixed thatis,neitherentirelywithin
free space norentirely within occupied space. Asolution path that includes such a cell may
not be areal solution, because there may be no wayto cross the cell in the desired direction
inastraight line. Thiswouldmakethepathplanner unsound. Ontheotherhand, ifweinsist
thatonlycompletely freecellsmaybeused, theplannerwillbeincomplete, becauseitmight
990 Chapter 25. Robotics
goal
start
goal
start
(a) (b)
Figure25.16 (a)Valuefunctionandpathfoundforadiscretegridcellapproximationof
theconfigurationspace. (b)Thesamepathvisualizedinworkspacecoordinates.Noticehow
therobotbendsitselbowtoavoidacollisionwiththeverticalobstacle.
bethe casethat theonly paths tothegoal gothrough mixedcells especially ifthecell size
is comparable to that of the passageways and clearances in the space. And third, any path
through adiscretized statespacewillnotbesmooth. Itisgenerally difficulttoguarantee that
a smooth solution exists near the discrete path. So a robot may not be able to execute the
solution foundthroughthisdecomposition.
Cell decomposition methods can be improved in a number of ways, to alleviate some
oftheseproblems. Thefirstapproachallows furthersubdivision ofthemixedcells perhaps
using cells of half the original size. This can be continued recursively until a path is found
that lies entirely within free cells. (Of course, the method only works if there is a way to
decideifagivencellisamixedcell,whichiseasyonlyiftheconfigurationspaceboundaries
haverelativelysimplemathematicaldescriptions.) Thismethodiscompleteprovidedthereis
aboundonthesmallestpassagewaythroughwhichasolutionmustpass. Althoughitfocuses
most of the computational effort on the tricky areas within the configuration space, it still
fails to scale well to high-dimensional problems becaus