Alvey report reinstated thefunding that
wascutbythe Lighthillreport.13 Inallthreecountries, however,theprojectsnevermettheir
ambitiousgoals.
Overall,the AIindustryboomedfromafewmilliondollarsin1980tobillionsofdollars
in 1988, including hundreds of companies building expert systems, vision systems, robots,
and software and hardware specialized for these purposes. Soon after that came a period
calledthe AI Winter, inwhichmanycompaniesfellbythewaysideastheyfailedtodeliver
onextravagant promises.
1.3.7 The return ofneural networks (1986 present)
In the mid-1980s at least four different groups reinvented the back-propagation learning
BACK-PROPAGATION
algorithm first found in 1969 by Bryson and Ho. The algorithm was applied to many learn-
ing problems in computer science and psychology, and the widespread dissemination of the
results in the collection Parallel Distributed Processing (Rumelhart and Mc Clelland, 1986)
causedgreatexcitement.
These so-called connectionist models of intelligent systems were seen by some as di-
CONNECTIONIST
rect competitors both to the symbolic models promoted by Newell and Simon and to the
logicist approach of Mc Carthy and others (Smolensky, 1988). It might seem obvious that
at some level humans manipulate symbols in fact, Terrence Deacon s book The Symbolic
13 Tosaveembarrassment,anewfieldcalled IKBS(Intelligent Knowledge-Based Systems)wasinventedbecause
Artificial Intelligencehadbeenofficiallycanceled.
Section1.3. The Historyof Artificial Intelligence 25
Species (1997) suggests that this is the defining characteristic of humans but the most ar-
dentconnectionistsquestionedwhethersymbolmanipulationhadanyrealexplanatoryrolein
detailed modelsofcognition. Thisquestion remainsunanswered, butthecurrent viewisthat
connectionistandsymbolicapproachesarecomplementary, notcompeting. Asoccurredwith
the separation of AI and cognitive science, modern neural network research has bifurcated
into two fields, one concerned with creating effective network ar