f a partial solution is a lower bound on actual cost, the above strategy will terminate with the minimal cost solution, when a complete solution has the lowest cost. In the case of finding the best move for MAX, the optimal value is the maximum value. In this case, the estimated value of a partial solution should be an upper bound of the actual value of the partial solution. The solution in the game tree search is a strategy. The task is to consider all strategies for MAX and pick the best strategy. Consider the four-ply game tree that we have been using as an example. Remember that a strategy for MAX is constructed by choosing one move for MAX and all moves for MIN. The following figure shows one strategy in the game tree. a rN rN ra , Tete es estes ars FIGURE 8.27 One of the eight strategies for MAX is the above 4-ply game tree. The value of this strategy is 5, the minimum value of the four leaves in this strategy. The 4-ply binary game tree has eight different strategies. Two choices at the first level, and 2 x 2 subsequent choices at the next level (two for each choice of MIN). Both 5-ply and 6-ply have 128 (or 27) strategies and 7 and 8-ply have 215 strategies. At the next level, each of the 215 strategies can be extended in 21 ways, yielding 2 " strategies. The reader should verify that for a (2n 1)-ply or 2n-ply game tree of branching factor b, the number of strategies that MAX has to choose from is, on 3) number of strategies for 2n-ply look-ahead va Fortunately, we do not have to enumerate and evaluate all these strategies. The algorithm Minimax looks at each node in the game tree exactly once, searching in a depth first manner. The algorithm AlphaBeta also searches in a depth first manner but prunes parts of the game tree. As we will see below, the algorithm SSS searches in a best first manner, and explores an even smaller part of the tree, visiting each node once. The value of any given strategy for MAX is the minimum of the values of the leaves in that s