f then it does not. One can connect the switch to a (fluorescent) light bulb and predict that it will emit light when the switch is on. However, it is possible that there is a power cut, and the bulb does not turn on. Or the circuit has two switches in series for some reason. In both these cases, the switch does not behave as expected by its model. The problem, of course, is with the model. It implicitly assumes that there is a potential difference across the switch. A better model would say that if the switch is on and there is a voltage drop across its terminals then the current will flow. A system may breach a qualitative operational state when one of the variables that predicate the state reaches the limit value. ENVISION reasons about the possibility of this happening by looking at the derivatives of the corresponding variables. Within an operational state too, variables may attain different combinations of values, which are qualitatively different in nature. For example, in the pressure regulator, if the input pressure goes up then the flow will increase as well, leading to a state in which the piston moves down, in turn reducing the flow. This kind of behaviour can be captured in episodes. Within an episode, a consistent assignment of values needs to be found for the variables in the active confluences. For example, if pressure regulator is in the Working state and the pressure starts increasing and OP become positive then for the confluence to be satisfied, either 0Q should become positive or 6A should become negative or both. Importantly, it disallows a state in which both OQ and OA are zero, or one in which 6Q is negative and OA positive. Thus, while it does not allow us to predict what exactly will happen, it does delimit the set of succeeding states to only those that are feasible. In general, one would like to use constraint propagation (see Chapter 9) to find out what values of other variables are feasible, but it turns out that this is not always poss