cate evaluates to false. Suppose, for example. we want to evaluate the truth , value of the expression E, where E: Vx ((A)a.x) V B(t(x)() & Chc)) -. Dlx) In this expression, there are four predicates: A, 8. C. and D. The predicate is a two-place predicate, the first argument being the constant a. and the second A argument, a variable x. The predicates B, C. and D are all unary predicates where the argument of B is a function f(x). and the argument of C and D is the variable Since the whole expression E is quantified with the universal quantifier Vs. it will evaluate to true only if it evaluates to true for all x in the domain 0. Thus. to complete our example. suppose E is interpreted as follows: Define the domain 1) = (1.2l and from D let the interpretation / assign the following values: = 2 ill) = 2. f(2) = I A(2.1) = true. A(2.2) = false B) I) true. B(2) false C(l( = true. C(2) = false Dl I) = fake. D(2) = true [sing a table such as Table 4.3 we can evaluate E as follows: a. If x = I. ,4(2.l) evaluates to true, B(2( evaluates to lake, and 1,1(2.1) V 8)21) evaluates to true. 0) evaluates to true. Therefore, the expression in 60 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 the outer parentheses (the antecedent of E) evaluates to true. Hence, since D( I) evaluates to false, the expression E evaluates to false. b. In a similar way, if x = 2, the expression can be shown to evaluate to true. Consequently, since F is not true for all x, the expression E evaluates to false. 4.4 PROPERTIES OF WFFS As in the case f PL, the evaluation of complex formulas in FOPL can often be facilitated through the substitution of equivalent formulas. Table 4.3 lists a number of equivalent expressions. In the table F, G and H denote wffs not containing variables and F (x) denotes the wif F which contains the variable x. The equivalences can easily be verified with truth tables such as Table 4,3 and simple arguments for the expressions containing quantifiers. Although Tables 4.4 and 4.3 are similar, th