we have seen are foolproof. None work in all situations. One can often try combinations of algorithms to develop hybrid algorithms. Some of the ideas of combining algorithms are as follows. One could start with a fit population for Genetic Algorithm by producing solutions by other methods like the terated Hill Climbing. Conversely, one could apply Genetic Algorithms to a population, and then follow up with Hill Climbing or Simulated Annealing on each member. Or, one could find solutions from ACO and improve upon them by other methods. Ant Colony Optimization methods aim to mimic how, in a given population, individuals can cooperate by sharing information as a matter of habit. Ants, by themselves, have a limited view of the world. In their search for food, the ant has a tendency to follow a trail left by other ants, and in turn leave a trail for others to follow. Ants that find food will quickly retrace their steps, strengthening the trail; and this simple process reinforces the food finding trails, leading to a steady procession of ants towards the food source. Ants are in fact doing a simple form of experience sharing. This is hardwired into their genetic make-up. They do not conceptualize their surroundings. They do not represent knowledge and facts, and reason with them. They are simply programmed to leave and follow trails. Consequently, their experience sharing behaviour is not flexible, and their lifestyles are simple. Humans on the other hand conceptualize their surroundings; have developed the ability to represent things, to reason about consequences, and language to share knowledge with. Consequently, our experience sharing behaviour is much more diverse. We can specialise in many areas and acquire experience in them. We can articulate this experience in fables, facts, stories, and text books to pass them on to others. The human species has accumulated knowledge over generations. We pass on to our offspring not only our genes, but also knowledge in various 