ommunicating through signs, and by doing so, we often (consciously) organize ourselves into teams and mobs where the activity of one becomes a sign for others to interpret. One has only to watch a high level team sporting event, like soccer, to see how the players read the actions of their teammates as well as opponents. We have no difficulty in accepting the fact that mammals and humans communicate through signs. Biosemiotics however, shows that communication through signs may result in simpler entities coming together, and forming swarms that can be seen as a more complex system. Consequently, it emerges that not only are our social structures immersed in a semiosphere, but also that we ourselves are kinds of semiospheres, in which the cells making up our different organs are bound together. Hoffmeyer (1994) introduces a notion of semetic interaction (from Greek: semeion sign, etos habit) interaction between simple elements as a general phenomenon in the life sphere. Semetic interaction refers to the tendency of living systems to make signs based on any persistent regularity: wherever there has developed a habit, there will also exist an organism for whom this habit has become a sign. He illustrates this with the behaviour of termites in the following paragraph When termites initiated nest constructing, the following sequence of events was observed by Grass : First, hundreds of termites move around at random, while they exhibit a peculiar habit of dropping small pellets of masticated earth in places which are elevated a little bit from the ground. In spite of the disorganized character of this activity, it results in the formation of small heaps of salivated earth pellets. Second, these heaps of earth pellets are interpreted by the termites as a sign to release a new habit. Every time a termite meets a heap, it energetically Starts building earth pellets on top of it. The effect of this activity will soon be the formation of a vertical column. The activity stops w