honies and symphoniesOfBeethoven defined in the chapter represent the same sets of elements. 20. Given a set of objects O, show that (O", O ) is a formal concept where O' att(O) and O " obj(att(O)). 21. If the properties in Table 14.1 have the following correspondence 1:preying, 2:flying, 3:bird, and 4:mammal, label the names of objects by corresponding animals. (See also Wolff, 1993 ). 22. In the context shown in Table 14.1 renamed by the previous exercise, insert the animal bat with the properties mammal and preying . Extend the concept lattice of Figure 14.34 to reflect the new context. 23. Given a set of natural numbers 1-12 and the properties P composite, even, odd, prime, square , construct a formal context and the corresponding concept lattice . 24. Given a context in the form of a table, implement the FCA algorithm to build the concept lattice. Display the lattice graphically. Given a concept C, one should be able to view the extent and the intent. Extension: Given a numeric attribute, a user should be able to select ranges with memberships to these ranges as attributes. 25. Use the negation and the conjunction operator to express disjunctions in conceptual graphs. Show how the sentence The cat is either on the mat or in the kitchen. 26. Show how conceptual graphs can be used to express IF-THEN kind of assertions. 27. The O-Eat relation says that for the event (act), Eat the object is Food. Add specializations of O-Eat to cater to the type of food herbivores and carnivores eat. http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Phenomenalism Chunking put together parts and give it a name. The term atom is derived from the Greek term atomos meaning, uncuttable or indivisible, coined by Democritus around 450 bc. Or sometimes, like Sherlock Holmes, consciously avoid knowledge that is not relevant to one s goals. In A Study in Scarlet (by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) Holmes says that he would now do his best to forget this fact (that the Earth goes round the Sun) as it would not make a pen