orld around us in our heads, to imagine, that is at the core of intelligent behaviour. Imagination is concerned with creating models of our surroundings in our heads, and being able to reason with those models. Reasoning may involve analysis or it may involve simulating the happenings in some form. The models may be close to reality, mirroring the world around us, in which case, we may want to validate them with ground reality . Or they may be abstract like those of a mathematician. Different professions teach us to make different kinds of models, some of which need a considerable amount of imagination to validate. Albert Einstein s theory of relativity needed sophisticated experiments in astronomy to validate. The astronomer works with models of stars and galaxies, and is able to devise experiments to validate theories'4 of different kinds. A chemist works with models of atoms and the bonds between them that form molecules. Complex molecules, like the double strand of DNA, are best described by constructing physical three-dimensional models. Biologists work with models of cells and organs. More recently, these models have become more and more precise and mathematical. Particle physicists imagine the workings of matter at sub-atomic level, and make predictions that may need an experiment in a cyclotron with a circumference running into kilometres. But all of us model the everyday world around us and learn to map incoming information into this model and make predictions about actions that we and others do. Thus, an intelligent agent, or one might say an imaginative agent, can be modelled as shown in Figure 1.2. In the figure, the humanlike head represents the agent, and the world around it is depicted by the outermost zig-zag lines. The shaded oval inside the agent represents the model of the world that the agent has. Observe that we have not represented it as the dotted lines mirroring the outside world because the model of the world the agent carries is not perfect