n At(start) interval, meet an At(Destination) interval, and must be during the Tuckedin interval for its arm. The relations between intervals can be seen as constraints between the nodes of a network. The corresponding CSP is a dynamic CSP (see Chapter 9) in which new variables (or nodes) are added in the processing of solving the CSP. The new nodes in the context of planning are related intervals that a planner adds to the network (plan), starting with an initial, underspecified network representing the planning problem. In the above example, there is only one Configuration Rule, but one can imagine situations when the Head interval can be supported by different sets of intervals. In the robot example, the Going action could be met-by a Turning action, wherein the previous state of the robot was that it was turning before it started moving. Examples from other domains are as follow. A baby might be happy (during an interval) as long as it is being picked up and carried about. It might also be happy, if alternately, it is allowed to splash around in water. A trekker in the hills may feel comfortable during the evening as long as she is in the state of wearing warm clothes, or alternately if the group is sitting around a small bonfire. A planner that needs to achieve the state of being comfortable will have to achieve either of the intervals. On a grander scale, a coalition government of a country may be in power (over an interval) either if it is supported by party A, or if it can entice a segment of party B to break away and support it. We have already observed that there is no distinction between the manner in which an action or a state is treated by the planner2 , Another interesting feature of the representation is that the problem and the solution are also described by the same representation. Both are constraint networks. They differ in the fact that the solution is a network that has no unsupported nodes. This is reminiscent of the Plan Space Planning (PSP) a