is consistent with the addition constraint. 7. The direction of changes propagate through monotonic functions amtA.qdir dec pressureA.qdir dec and amtB.qdir inc pressureB.qdir ine 8. Direction of change can also propagate through the addition constraint, pressureA.qdir dee a pressureB.qdir ine pAB.qdir dee 9. And finally, the direction of change in pressure drop propagates to flow. PAB. qdir dec flowAB.qdir dee Given that we started with the partially known state in which tank A has amtA amount of fluid and tank B is empty, reasoning over the constraint model gives us a better description of the state. In this case, it is a complete description as depicted in Table 17.4. Table 17.4 The initial state with tank A is partially filled Variable name gmag qdir Quantity space Target value amt AMAX dec (0, AMAX, ) (0, AMAX) ant 0 ine (0. BMAX ) BMAX) total 0, ) std (0, ) pressured dec 0.2) 0 pressure 0 inc 0.) (0,9) PAB (OE) dec .0, ) o flowAB (0, ) dec (, 0, ) 0 The qualitative state described above exists only for an instant. There are three variables amtA, amtB, and pressureB on landmark values, and all three are changing. All three move simultaneously away from their landmarks and the state transitions to a durative state that exists over a open interval (fo,t;). The new state is described in Table 17.5 below. Table 17.5 The first qualitative state in the next instant Variable name mag adir Quantity space Target value ata 0, AMLD) dec (0, AMAY. ) 0 amiB (0, BMAX) inc (0, BMAX, ) BMAX total 2) std 0.) pressured dec 0 pressureB (0, ). inc 0.) Ts pAB (0, ) dec ( , 0, x) 0 flowAB (0, ) dec (.0. ) 0 During this qualitative state that exists till the yet unknown time point t,, fluid is flowing from tank A to tank B. In that sense, the physical state is changing even when qualitatively it remains the same. The qualitative state will change when one of the variables reaches a different qualitative value. This could happen when the magnitude qmag reaches a landmark in the direct