 human | operator Lymphocyte cloning Detector replication . ; Pathogen detection Detection event Pathogen elimination Response Case-HI AIS for Robot Control and Navigation Robotics has always been the final bed for testing intelligence. Empowering robots with the capability to think and decide what actions to perform and when, has been a problem tackled with great rigor but little progress. Discussing techniques used to solve these problems is beyond the scope of this chapter. This case study is based on the work done by Ishiguro et al (1996). They describe how the Artificial Immune System framework can fit into a scenario where robots learn to perform their tasks autonomously. 490 Artificial Intelligence The environment, shown in Fig, 24.10, consists of a mobile robot which is to pick up garbage from different locations and dump it into a garbage can. Garbage Far 7 oneeeerteo tees Middie f / Near itp \ NN Battery / \ ss, Recharger_.-- f Fig. 24.10 Robot Scenario (based on Ishiguro et al) As the robot moves, its energy level depletes forcing it to search and go towards the battery charger. The robot is capable of sensing the distance from the garbage as also from its home base that houses both the battery charger and the garbage can. The energy level of the robot at time t is given by the following equation E(t) = E(t 1) E, ky Ey hy En where 4k, = 1 if robot has grabbed the garbage using its gripper; else =0 k, = 1 if the robot collides with an obstacle (the wall or the garbage) E, is the energy consumed at each step, E,, and E,, are the energies lost due to the additional burden of carrying garbage and during collisions respectively. The robot behaves just as an agent, perceiving and then taking actions that change the state of the environment. Perception effected by the sensors forms the antigen while the actions that it can take form part of the antibodies. The sensors detect the current state (antigen) in the form of a quadruple <Garbage_to_X, Obstacle_to_Y, Hom