t level. Some problems like the TSP will not work with the crossover depicted above. We will look at TSP separately since it is a problem of considerable interest. The algorithm GA is described at a high level in Figure 4.9. In the algorithm shown in Figure 4.9, if we make the population size 1, and work only with the mutation operator then we would have the Random Walk or Simulated Annealing algorithms. The novel feature in GA is that it combines two processes working on a population of candidates. One recombines the components, and the other selects the best candidates. It is this dual action that makes GAs different. Without recombination, the algorithm would reduce to a parallel Random Walk or Simulated Annealing, where the mutation operator would be used to perturb solutions. Perturbation is a local change in the solution, and affects a local move in the neighbourhood graph. The crossover operator, on the other hand, results in a (big) jump in the neighbourhood graph. We can think of the crossover as a move from two parents to the two children. The two children may not be anywhere in the vicinity of the two parents, unless the two parents are similar to each other. At the same time, the Selection operator chooses the best (fittest) members and makes more copies of them. As the above two processes work in tandem, the population becomes fitter and fitter. This leads to more and more members accumulating near the peaks in the search space (see Figure 4.10 below). If the number of peaks is small, this will in turn lead to a population that has more members that are similar to each other because they are all congregating near the peaks where the fitness values are high. Since more and more similar parents will be chosen to mate, the children will be closer to both of them. If there is only one peak, eventually the population will stabilise to most members becoming similar to each other and the genetic variation will diminish , leading to fewer changes in future gene