known, domain or task specific features may also be useful.. Next, we examine some of the definitions and methods used for region descriptions. Des ribing Boundaries Boundaries can be described as linked straight-line segments, fitted polynomial curves, or in a number of other ways. One simple method of fitting straight-line segments to an arbitrary boundary is by successive linear segmentation fitting. This method permits any degree of fit accuracy at the expense of computation time. The fitting procedure is illustrated in Figure 14.17. The fitting begins by connecting a single straight line to the two end points and using this as an approximation to the curve (a). Additional lines are then constructed using the points on the curve at maximum perpendicular distances to the fitted lines (b, c,and d). 1^1^ (a) fb I ^"Flgure 14.17 ('ure 6tting stth linear (c) (di segments 2306 Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 An algorithm to perform the biting would proceed as follows. I. Starting with the two end points of the boundary curve, construct a straight line between the points. 2. At successive intervals along the curve, compute the perpendicular dic to the constructed line. If the maximum distance is within some specified limit, stop and use the segmented line as an approximation to the houndar) 3. Otherwise, choose the point on the curve at which the largest distance occurs and use this as a breakpoint with which to construct two new line semeni which connect to the two endpoints. Continue the process recursvet's v. ui each subcurve until the stopping condition of Step 2 is satisfied. Chain Codes Another method used for boundary descriptions is known as chain coding code is it sequence of integers which describe the boundary of a region in terms displacements from some starting point. A chain code is specified by four ot more direction numbers which give a trace of the directional displacements of successive unit line segments, An example of a four direction chain code