 is beyond the scope of this book, an understanding of the immune system as a whole is imperative for developing newer and more efficient immune based algorithms and applications. Readers are urged to look into the glossary of terms at the end of this chapter for terminology not defined explicitly in the text. 24.2 THE PHENOMENON OF IMMUNITY The word immune is derived from the Latin word immunis, the meaning of which has several shades. The original Latin word stands for not serving. Ancient Romans used the word to mean exemption from military service. Others describe this to be free of burden, resistant, protected, impervious and the like. It has been known for ages that if a person has had an attack of measles, the likelihood of a second attack is very low as 480 Artificial intelligence compared to other diseases like chicken pox, mumps, etc. The person is thus said to be specifically immune to measles. The body also exhibits non-specific immunity to a range of pathogens' , Protection from these is achieved by neutrophils'> and macrophages", cells that detect, attack and kill these pathogens. Our body is also immune to pathogens that cannot thrive at temperatures beyond 37 degree Celsius. Immunity is however not very well understood. Immunization against cholera or typhoid, provides only moderate protection. It has also been observed that some vaccines can immunize a set of people living in one part of the globe, while for others, it cannot. When people are exposed to a particular endemic disease, they tend to become immune to it. Unfortunately it is still not possible to induce such immunity artificially. A biological being is under constant attack by invading agents or antigens. Antigens, generally encompass foreign agents such as the molecules on the surface of pathogens. Strangely, the body has been known to react toa variety of harmless agents too. Foreign implants, blood transfusion, pollen and drugs can trigger reactions that are similar to those when invad