rchcanfindprovablyoptimal
abstract planswithoutconsidering theirimplementations. Thesameapproach canbeusedto HIERARCHICAL obtain effective hierarchical lookahead algorithms for online search, in the style of LRTA
LOOKAHEAD
(page152). Insomeways,suchalgorithmsmirroraspectsofhumandeliberationintaskssuch
asplanningavacationto Hawaii consideration ofalternativesisdoneinitiallyatanabstract
leveloverlongtimescales;somepartsoftheplanareleftquiteabstractuntilexecution time,
suchashowtospendtwolazydayson Molokai,whileotherspartsareplannedindetail,such
as the flights to be taken and lodging to be reserved without these refinements, there is no
guarantee thattheplanwouldbefeasible.
11.3 PLANNING AND ACTING IN NONDETERMINISTIC DOMAINS
In this section we extend planning to handle partially observable, nondeterministic, and un-
known environments. Chapter 4 extended search in similar ways, and the methods here are
also similar: sensorless planning (also known as conformant planning) for environments
with no observations; contingency planning for partially observable and nondeterministic
environments; andonlineplanningandreplanningforunknownenvironments.
While the basic concepts are the same as in Chapter 4, there are also significant dif-
ferences. These arise because planners deal withfactored representations ratherthan atomic
representations. Thisaffectsthewaywerepresenttheagent scapabilityforactionandobser-
vation and the way we represent belief states the sets of possible physical states the agent
might be in for unobservable and partially observable environments. We can also take ad-
vantage of many of the domain-independent methods given in Chapter 10 for calculating
searchheuristics.
Considerthisproblem: givenachairandatable,thegoalistohavethemmatch have
the same color. In the initial state wehave two cans of paint, but the colors of the paint and
thefurniture areunknown. Onlythetableisinitiallyinthe agent s fieldofview:
Init(Object(Table) Object(Chair) Can(C ) Can(C ) In 