uch more difficult to directly implement algorithms for the task of pattern recognition, since it is difficult to articulate the precise rules that define the patterns. Such articulation is not necessary in ANNs because they rely instead on a process of training the networks on a (large) collection of training patterns. Even when we can train ANNs to store knowledge of patterns, it is difficult to analyse where this knowledge is stored into the weights network. For this reason, neural networks are sometimes referred to as subsymbolic representation systems. They do not represent knowledge at the level where symbols stand for something, but at the signal or subsymbolic level.14 The fact that patterns are stored in a distributed manner has also led to the hypothesis that memory in such systems is not localized. Hofstadter says in his famous book GEB (Hofstadter, 1979) that there is no grandmother node in our brains. The relation between location and information in human brains is still not clear though. While it has been observed that even with parts of our cortex being damaged, one can carry on our cognitive tasks, suggesting that the brain is somewhat like a hologram in which information is stored in every part, which is only true to some extent. Recent work in neurobiology (see for example (Ramachandran 2003)) has demonstrated that there are locations in our brain that store and process specific information. For example, we seem to have specific hardwired segments in our brains for recognizing faces, which is not surprising given the importance we seem to give to faces in thinking about other people. Patients for whom that part of the cortex is damaged are unable to recognize people when they look at them, but do so immediately when spoken to. Even more intriguing are cases where patients are not able to associate the faces of one or two known people as their relatives, suggesting that a specific pathway in the network may have been damaged. While it has been demon