then clone (replicate) and spread across the network thus raising the effectiveness of intrusion detection. Thus when the intrusive bit-string reaches another node already Artificial Immune Systems 489 reached by the memory detector, a secondary response takes place and the detection takes place in lesser time. Every node now becomes aware of a possible intrusion by that specific bit string. In addition the process is sped up by decreasing the activation thresholds of these memory detectors. As in the biological world where a detection is followed by a set of co-stimulatory signals, the intrusion system mimics this by sending a warning signal to the human network administrator. The administrator in tum ascertains, within a specific time period, whether there was an intrusicn or not, based on which a signal is returned to the detector that recognized it. If the administrator sends a positive signal (intrusion was correctly detected) then the life span of this memory detector is increased, else it is removed and replaced by a new one. Figure 24.9 shows the basic set up of ARTIS while Table 24.3 depicts some of the technical metaphors that translate from the biological immune system. Externa) Computer 23,23.7,30 Connection Parameters 23,23.7,30,23.7,40,40) Sensitivity Level land IP:23,23.7,40 Parameters Detector Set Detection Node Fig. 24.9 Artificial Immune System for Computer Security (based on Forrest and Hofmeyr) Table 24.3 Immune System Metaphors (based on Forrest and Hofmeyr) Immune system Metaphors . Lymphocyte(B-cell,T-cell) Detector Antibody variable region Detector string - Memory cell Memory detector. =. ~ Pathogen Non self binary string Circulation Mobile detectors MHC Represeritation parameters Cytokines Sensitivity level ~<-* - . Signals Activation threshold, human | operator Lymphocyte cloning Detector replication . ; Pathogen detection Detection event Pathogen elimination Response Case-HI AIS for Robot Control and Navigation Robotics has always been the