hen the size of those worlds is unbounded; instead, it samples finite, partial worlds, rely-
ing on the fact that only finitely many objects can be relevant to the query in distinct ways.
Moreover, transitions must allow formerging two objects into one orsplitting one into two.
(Details are given in the references at the end of the chapter.) Despite these complications,
thebasicprincipleestablished in Equation(14.13)stillholds: theprobability ofanysentence
iswelldefinedandcanbecalculated.
Researchinthisareaisstillatanearlystage, butalready itisbecoming clearthatfirst-
orderprobabilistic reasoning yieldsatremendous increase intheeffectiveness of AIsystems
at handling uncertain information. Potential applications include those mentioned above computer vision, text understanding, and intelligence analysis as well asmanyother kinds
ofsensorinterpretation.
14.7 OTHER APPROACHES TO UNCERTAIN REASONING
Other sciences (e.g., physics, genetics, and economics) have long favored probability as a
model foruncertainty. In 1819, Pierre Laplace said, Probability theory is nothing but com-
mon sense reduced to calculation. In 1850, James Maxwell said, The true logic for this
world isthe calculus of Probabilities, which takes account ofthe magnitude ofthe probabil-
itywhichis,oroughttobe,inareasonable man smind. Given this long tradition, it is perhaps surprising that AI has considered many alterna-
tives to probability. The earliest expert systems of the 1970s ignored uncertainty and used
strictlogicalreasoning,butitsoonbecameclearthatthis wasimpracticalformostreal-world
domains. The next generation ofexpert systems (especially in medical domains) used prob-
abilistic techniques. Initial results were promising, but they did not scale up because of the
exponentialnumberofprobabilities requiredinthefulljointdistribution. (Efficient Bayesian
network algorithms were unknown then.) As a result, probabilistic approaches fell out of
favor from roughly 1975 to1988, and avariety ofalternati