Consider the sentences The hotel was located close to the conference venue. The staff was cordial. The hotel was expensive. Aggregation combines these sentences into one sentence: The hotel was located close to the conference venue and the staff was cordial, though it was expensive . Finally, microplanning involves exicalization, which refers to the right choice of words to express a concept. While, for example, rise and ascend are near synonyms, it is unusual to describe the temperature as ascending. (a) In order to reach the conference venue Purpose from Hotel Raintree and attend conference 9o e (b) Take bus SE to IIT Madras IN gate, and (c) take the IIT bus from IN gate to ICSR building (a) Sequence (N) (N) OR (d) Take a cab from hotel to ICSR building (N Alternative Result (e) Register for the conference at ICST reception WO WAS Sequence (d) (f) Choose the session you want to attend and f WA) oO ask for help at reception (b) ( ) (g) The volunwers will help you with directions to auditoriums and lecture halls. Figure 16.16 Rhetorical structures in Document Planning 3. Surface Realization The surface realization step deals with fixing the grammatical structure of the sentence and inserting the words in the appropriate slots of that structure. Decisions are made with respect to the insertion of prepositions or determining inflected or derived word forms. 4. Final Presentation This involves substeps like formatting, layout and punctuation. It may be worthwhile to compare NLU against NLG. In NLU, the input is NL text, while NLG can accept varied forms of input. In NLU, the input is ambiguous, underspecified and ill-formed and the central concern is of managing the space of potential hypothesis about the underlying meaning. NLG, in contrast, deals with input that is relatively unambiguous, well specified and well-formed. The central concern in NLG is choosing between different ways of expressing the underlying content, driven by communication goals and an understandin