reby making it easy to represent in a semantic net. Three or more place predicates can also be converted to a binary form by creating one new object representing the entire predicate statement and then introducing binary predicates to describe the relationship to this new object of each of the original arguments. For example, suppose we know that score(Cubs, Dodgers, 5-3) Game q T, . . . visiting isa This can be represented in a semantic net by Cubs | team 623 score --| 53 creating a node to represent the specific game and then relating each of the three pieces of information home-team to it. Doing this produces the network shown in Fig, Doagers 9.2. Fig. 9.2 A Semantic Net for an n-Place Predicate This technique is particularly useful for representing the contents of a typical declarative sentence that describes several aspects of a particular Give Book event. The sentence t instance t instance agent object John gave the book to Mary. John |x EV7 |_BK23 i] beneficiary could be represented by the network shown in Mary Fig. 9.3.7 In fact, several of the earliest uses of semantic nets were in English-understanding Fig. 9.3 A Semantic Net Representing a Sentence programs. 9.1.3. Making Some Important Distinctions In the networks we have described so far, we have glossed over some distinctions that are important in reasoning. For example, there should be a difference between a link that defines a new entity and one that relates two existing entities. Consider the net height e H John 72 Both nodes represent objects that exist independently of their relationship to each other. But now suppose we want to represent the fact that John is taller than Bill, using the net John Bik height height greater-than H2 The nodes Hl and H2 are new concepts representing John s height and Bill s height, respectively. They are defined by their relationships to the nodes John and Bill. Using these defined concepts, it is possible to 2 The node labeled BK23 represents the particular book that