sa linear Gaussian model,just asin a regular Kalmanfilter. Thetran-
sitionmodelforthediscretestate,P(St 1 St),canbethoughtofasamatrix,asinahidden
Markovmodel.
probability 1ifitencounters awall). Implementthisasan HM Manddofilteringtotrackthe
robot. Howaccurately canwetracktherobot spath?
15.10 Often,wewishtomonitoracontinuous-state systemwhosebehaviorswitchesunpre-
dictablyamongasetofkdistinct modes. Forexample,anaircrafttryingtoevadea missile
canexecute aseries ofdistinct maneuvers that the missilemayattempt totrack. ABayesian
networkrepresentation ofsucha switching Kalmanfiltermodelisshownin Figure15.21.
a. Suppose that the discrete state S has k possible values and that the prior continuous
t
state estimate P(X ) is a multivariate Gaussian distribution. Show that the prediction
0
P(X )is a mixture of Gaussians that is, a weighted sum of Gaussians such that the
1
weightssumto1.
b. Show that if the current continuous state estimate P(X e ) is a mixture of m Gaus-
t 1:t
sians, theninthegeneral casetheupdated stateestimate P(X e )willbeamix-
t 1 1:t 1
tureofkm Gaussians.
c. Whataspectofthetemporalprocess dotheweightsinthe Gaussianmixturerepresent?
Theresultsin(a)and(b)showthattherepresentationoftheposteriorgrowswithoutlimiteven
forswitching Kalmanfilters,whichareamongthesimplesthybriddynamicmodels.
15.11 Completethemissingstepinthederivationof Equation(15.19)onpage586,thefirst
updatestepfortheone-dimensional Kalmanfilter.
15.12 Letusexaminethebehaviorofthevariance updatein Equation(15.20)(page587).
a. Plotthevalueof 2 asafunction oft,givenvariousvaluesfor 2 and 2.
t x z
b. Showthat the update has afixedpoint 2 such that 2 2 as t , and calculate
t
thevalueof 2.
c. Giveaqualitative explanation forwhathappens as 2 0andas 2 0.
x z
Exercises 609
15.13 A professor wants to know if students are getting enough sleep. Each day, the pro-
fessor observes whether the students sleep in class, and whether they have red eyes. The
professorhasthefollowingdomaintheory: Thepriorprobab