cognition is much easier that the process of recall. Typical memory games involve recalling a sequence of numbers or names, and most of us give up after seven or eight sized collections. On the other hand, we have no difficulty in recognizing a face from the thousands we might have seen. In Chapter 15, we investigate the memory based approach to solving problems in which a key issue is the retrieval of a relevant piece of memory. It is interesting to note that computer programming also has paradigms reflecting these two kinds of memory or ways of encoding knowledge. In the imperative paradigm, a computer program is a sequence of instructions, with loops possibly built in, to be followed. The program is a procedure for solving a program. In declarative paradigms like logic programming, the program is the knowledge of relations between in a domain. A high level procedure operates on this declarative knowledge to solve problems. The insights gained into memory owe much to the study of patients who have suffered accidents, and brain lesions caused by strokes (Rose, 1998). One such famous patient known only by his initials, H.M., was operated on in 1950 for epilepsy in Montreal. During the operation, the patient s hippocampus and parts of his temporal lobe were removed. Following the operation, H.M. lost the capacity to create new long-term memories. He could only remember events for a few minutes. More recently, Ramachandran (for example in (2010)), describes how a patient called John suffered a stroke as a result of which he lost his ability for visual recognition. He could not recognize his wife s face, even when he could recognize her by her voice. He even had to convince himself that the face he saw in the mirror was his own because it winks when wink and it moves when do . More recently, with new imaging techniques like PET (Positron Emission Tomography), MEG (MagnetoEncephaloGraphy) and CAT (Computer Aided Tomography), scientists have been able to map the differen