asthey
arebothcompleted beforethe Put On(Spare,Axle)action.
Partially ordered plans are created by a search through the space of plans rather than
through the state space. We start with the empty plan consisting of just the initial state and
thegoal,withnoactionsinbetween,asinthetopof Figure10.13. Thesearchprocedurethen
looks for a flaw in the plan, and makes an addition to the plan to correct the flaw (or if no
FLAW
correction can be made, the search backtracks and tries something else). A flaw is anything
that keeps thepartial plan from being asolution. Forexample, oneflawintheemptyplan is
thatnoactionachieves At(Spare,Axle). Onewaytocorrecttheflawistoinsertintotheplan
Section10.4. Other Classical Planning Approaches 391
At(Spare,Trunk)
Start At(Spare,Axle) Finish
At(Flat,Axle)
(a)
At(Spare,Trunk) Remove(Spare,Trunk)
At(Spare,Trunk) At(Spare,Ground)
Start Put On(Spare,Axle) At(Spare,Axle) Finish
At(Flat,Axle) At(Flat,Axle)
(b)
At(Spare,Trunk) Remove(Spare,Trunk)
At(Spare,Trunk) At(Spare,Ground)
Start Put On(Spare,Axle) At(Spare,Axle) Finish
At(Flat,Axle) At(Flat,Axle)
At(Flat,Axle) Remove(Flat,Axle)
(c)
Figure10.13 (a)thetireproblemexpressedasanemptyplan. (b)anincompletepartially
orderedplanforthetireproblem.Boxesrepresentactionsandarrowsindicatethatoneaction
mustoccurbeforeanother.(c)acompletepartially-orderedsolution.
theaction Put On(Spare,Axle). Ofcoursethatintroducessomenewflaws: thepreconditions
of the new action are not achieved. The search keeps adding to the plan (backtracking if
necessary) until all flaws are resolved, as in the bottom of Figure 10.13. At every step, we
make the least commitment possible to fix the flaw. For example, in adding the action
LEASTCOMMITMENT
Remove(Spare,Trunk)weneedtocommittohaving itoccurbefore Put On(Spare,Axle),
butwemakenoothercommitmentthatplacesitbeforeorafter otheractions. Iftherewerea
variableintheactionschemathatcouldbeleftunbound, wewoulddoso.
In the 1980s and 90s, partial-order planning was seen as the best way to