 replies to queries with a yes or a no, and its human audience did not doubt that the answer was preceded by some impressive mental activity. Arab astrologers were believed to have constructed a thinking machine called the zairja. The Zairja caught afire imagination of a missionary, Ramon Lull (1232-1315), with religious zeal, who decided to build a Christian version called the Ars Magna. Like the zairja, the Ars Magna was constructed using a set of rotating discs and was aimed to bring reason to bear on all subjects and, in this way, arrive at the truth without the trouble of thinking or fact finding (McCorduck, 1973). This period also marks the emergence of the art of making elaborate clocks decorated with animated figures, which helped establish the belief that learned men kept artificial servants. In the sixteenth century, the rabbi Judah ben Loew (1520-1609) is said to have created an artificial man named Joseph Golem, who could only be instructed properly by the rabbi. Earlier in the century, Paracelsus (1493-1541), a physician by profession, is reputed to have created a homunculus, or a little man. The art of mechanical creatures flourished in the following years. The Archbishop of Salsburg built a working model of a complete miniature town, operated by water power. In 1644, the French engineer, Isaac de Caus, designed a menacing metal owl along with a set of smaller birds chirping around it, except when the owl was looking at them. In the eighteenth century, Jacques de Vaucanson (1709-1782) of Paris constructed a mechanical duck that could bend its neck, move its wings and feet, and eat and apparently digest food. Vaucanson himself was careful not to make strong claims about the duck s innards, asserting that he was only interested in imitating the larger aspects. This approach has been echoed often in artificial intelligence. For example, chess playing machines do not make decisions the way human players do. A creation of doubtful veracity was the chess aut