for MIN and MAX
nodes is unchanged, but wecan also prune chance nodes, using a bit of ingenuity. Consider
thechance node C in Figure5.11and whathappens toitsvalue asweexamine and evaluate
its children. Is it possible to find an upper bound on the value of C before we have looked
atallitschildren? (Recall that thisiswhatalpha beta needs inordertoprune anode andits
subtree.) Atfirstsight, itmightseem impossible because thevalueof C istheaverage ofits
children s values, and in order to compute the average of a set of numbers, we must look at
all the numbers. But ifweput bounds on the possible values of the utility function, then we
can arrive atbounds forthe average without looking atevery number. Forexample, say that
allutilityvaluesarebetween 2and 2;thenthevalueofleafnodesisbounded, andinturn
wecanplaceanupperboundonthevalueofachancenodewithoutlookingatallitschildren.
MONTECARLO An alternative is to do Monte Carlo simulation to evaluate a position. Start with
SIMULATION
an alpha beta (or other) search algorithm. From a start position, have the algorithm play
thousands of games against itself, using random dice rolls. In the case of backgammon, the
resulting win percentage has been shown to be a good approximation of the value of the
position, even if the algorithm has an imperfect heuristic and is searching only a few plies
(Tesauro,1995). Forgameswithdice,thistypeofsimulation iscalledarollout.
ROLLOUT
5.6 PARTIALLY OBSERVABLE GAMES
Chess has often been described as war in miniature, but it lacks at least one major charac-
teristic of real wars, namely, partial observability. In the fog of war, the existence and
disposition of enemy units is often unknown until revealed by direct contact. As a result,
warfareincludestheuseofscoutsandspiestogatherinformationandtheuseofconcealment
and bluff to confuse the enemy. Partially observable games share these characteristics and
arethusqualitatively differentfromthegamesdescribed inthepreceding sections.
5.6.1 Kriegspiel: Parti