it combines with the meaning of the noun phrase or phrases to which it is attached. The last two rules are simpler. They define the meanings of nouns. Since nouns do not usually take arguments, these rules specify only single-word meanings; they do not need to describe how the meanings of larger constituents are derived from their components. One important thing to remember about these mules is that since they define mappings from words into a knowledge base, they implicitly make available to the semantic processing system all the information contained in the knowledge base itself. For example, Fig. 15.19 contains a description of the semantic information that is associated with the word want after applying the semantic rule associated with the verb and retrieving semantic constraints associated with wanting events in the knowledge base. Notice that we now know where to pick up the agent for the wanting (RM1) and we now know some property that the agent must have. The semantic interpretation routine will reject any interpretation that does not satisfy all these constraints. This compositional approach to defining semantic interpretation has proved to be a very powerful idea, (See, for example, the Absity system described in Hirst [1987].) Unfortunately, there are some linguistic constructions that cannot be accounted for naturally in a strictly compositional system. Quantified expressions have this property. Consider, for example, the sentence Every student who hadn t declared a major took an English class. Unit instance : Wanting agent: RM, must be <animate> object : AM; must be <state or event> Fig. 15.19 Combining Mapping Knowledge with the Knowledge Base There are several ways in which the relative scopes of the quantifiers in this sentence can be assigned. In the most likely, both existential quantifiers are within the scope of the universal quantifier. But, in other readings, they are not. These include readings corresponding to, There is a major such that eve