 is the problem ofspurious actions such as Fly(P ,JFK,JFK), which should
1
beano-op, butwhich hascontradictory effects (according tothedefinition, theeffect would
include At(P ,JFK) At(P ,JFK)). It is common to ignore such problems, because
1 1
they seldom cause incorrect plans to beproduced. Thecorrect approach isto add inequality
preconditions saying thatthe from andto airports mustbedifferent; seeanother exampleof
thisin Figure10.3.
10.1.2 Example: The spare tireproblem
Consider the problem of changing a flat tire (Figure 10.2). The goal is to have a good spare
tireproperlymountedontothecar saxle,wheretheinitial statehasaflattireontheaxleand
a good spare tire in the trunk. To keep it simple, our version of the problem is an abstract
one,withnostickylugnutsorothercomplications. Therearejustfouractions: removingthe
spare from the trunk, removing the flat tire from the axle, putting the spare on the axle, and
leaving the car unattended overnight. We assume that the car is parked in a particularly bad
neighborhood, sothat the effect ofleaving itovernight isthat the tires disappear. Asolution
totheproblem is Remove(Flat,Axle),Remove(Spare,Trunk),Put On(Spare,Axle) .
Init(Tire(Flat) Tire(Spare) At(Flat,Axle) At(Spare,Trunk))
Goal(At(Spare,Axle))
Action(Remove(obj,loc),
PRECOND:At(obj,loc)
EFFECT: At(obj,loc) At(obj,Ground))
Action(Put On(t, Axle),
PRECOND:Tire(t) At(t,Ground) At(Flat,Axle)
EFFECT: At(t,Ground) At(t,Axle))
Action(Leave Overnight,
PRECOND:
EFFECT: At(Spare,Ground) At(Spare,Axle) At(Spare,Trunk) At(Flat,Ground) At(Flat,Axle) At(Flat, Trunk))
Figure10.2 Thesimplesparetireproblem.
10.1.3 Example: The blocks world
One of the most famous planning domains is known as the blocks world. This domain
BLOCKSWORLD
consists of a set of cube-shaped blocks sitting on a table.2 The blocks can be stacked, but
only one block can fitdirectly ontop ofanother. Arobot arm canpick up ablock and move
it to another position, either on the table or on top of another block. The ar