thing that happens on the World Wide Web, including blogs, news stories, and the vast amounts of textual data that grows rapidly. Another reason that Machine Learning has received considerable attention is the increasing amount of hostility in the world. Governments around the world are keen to monitor the numerous emails going back and forth, the patterns of activity in social networks, and keeping an eye on who goes where and when. Most of the current work in Machine Translation is statistical in nature. Cars are being trained to navigate the streets autonomously, and robots are learning to create maps of the world around them. And machine learning is finding tremendous applications in medical diagnosis and interpretation of speech, images, handwritten text and other data, and a host of biology related applications such as Bioinformatics. Banks are applying machine learning to do fraud detection and credit risk analysis of customers. All this is happening by learning from data. Some of the earliest work in Machine Learning was also concerned with concept learning. For example, Patrick Henry Winston was writing programs to learn concepts from training data. A well-known example of his work was when a computer program could learn structural descriptions like the concept of an arch, in which two beams are standing vertically, away from each other and a horizontal beam is resting upon them.'7 Douglas Lenat attempted to implement an Automated Mathematician (AM), a program that reputedly learnt the concept of prime numbers as a special class of numbers that have exactly two divisors (though critics accused him of overinterpreting the data).1 Subsequently, there were other efforts towards concept learning, which has also received an impetus from the growing interest in ontologies. Tom Mitchell has predicted that machines would be able to read like humans in the next decade. '9 The essence of speedy intelligent action is knowledge. It is knowledge that enables an expert p