tive curvesontheboundary ofapedestrian aretreatedinthesameway
as fine texture detail in clothing or in the background, and so the signal may be submerged
innoise. Wecanrecovercontrastinformationbycountinggradientorientations withweights
that reflect how significant a gradient is compared to other gradients in the same cell. We
will write Ix for the gradient magnitude at point x in the image, write C for the cell
whosehistogram wewishtocompute, and write wx,C fortheweight thatwewilluseforthe
Section24.4. Reconstructing the3DWorld 947
Figure 24.15 Another example of object recognition, this one using the SIFT feature
(Scale Invariant Feature Transform),anearlierversionof the HO Gfeature. Ontheleft,im-
agesofashoeandatelephonethatserveasobjectmodels.Inthecenter,atestimage.Onthe
right,theshoeandthetelephonehavebeendetectedby: findingpointsintheimagewhose
SIF Tfeaturedescriptionsmatchamodel;computinganestimateofposeofthemodel;and
verifyingthatestimate. Astrongmatchisusuallyverifiedwithrarefalsepositives. Images
from Lowe(1999)(cid:2)c IEEE.
orientation atxforthiscell. Anaturalchoiceofweightis
wx,C (cid:2)
u C
I x Iu .
This compares the gradient magnitude to others in the cell, so gradients that are large com-
pared to their neighbors get a large weight. The resulting feature is usually called a HOG
feature(for Histogram Of Gradientorientations).
HOGFEATURE
This feature construction is the main way in which pedestrian detection differs from
facedetection. Otherwise,buildingapedestrian detector isverylikebuilding afacedetector.
The detector sweeps a window across the image, computes features for that window, then
presents it to a classifier. Non-maximum suppression needs to be applied to the output. In
mostapplications, thescale andorientation oftypical pedestrians isknown. Forexample, in
driving applications in which a camera is fixedto the car, we expect to view mainly vertical
pedestrians, and we are interested only in nearby pedestrians. Several pedestrian data sets
ha