s,ledto FOIL (Quinlan,1990), whichforthefirsttimeallowedpractical induc-
tion of relational rules. The field of relational learning was reinvigorated by Muggleton and
Buntine(1988),whose CIGO Lprogramincorporated aslightlyincompleteversionofinverse
resolution andwascapableofgenerating newpredicates. Theinverseresolution methodalso
appears in(Russell, 1986), withasimple algorithm given in afootnote. Thenextmajorsys-
tem was GOLEM (Muggleton and Feng, 1990), which uses a covering algorithm based on
Plotkin s concept of relative least general generalization. ITOU (Rouveirol and Puget, 1989)
and CLINT (De Raedt, 1992) wereothersystemsofthatera. Morerecently, PROGOL (Mug-
gleton, 1995) has taken a hybrid (top-down and bottom-up) approach to inverse entailment
and has been applied to a number of practical problems, particularly in biology and natural
language processing. Muggleton (2000) describes anextension of PROGOL tohandle uncer-
taintyintheformofstochastic logicprograms.
A formal analysis of ILP methods appears in Muggleton (1991), a large collection of
papers in Muggleton (1992), and a collection of techniques and applications in the book
by Lavraucand Duzeroski(1994). Pageand Srinivasan(2002)giveamorerecentoverviewof
thefield shistory andchallenges forthefuture. Earlycomplexity results by Haussler(1989)
suggestedthatlearningfirst-ordersentenceswasintractible. However,withbetterunderstand-
ingoftheimportance ofsyntactic restrictions onclauses, positiveresults havebeenobtained
even for clauses with recursion (Duzeroski et al., 1992). Learnability results for ILP are
surveyedby Kietzand Duzeroski(1994)and Cohenand Page(1995).
Although IL Pnowseemstobethedominant approach toconstructive induction, ithas
not been the only approach taken. So-called discovery systems aim to model the process
DISCOVERYSYSTEM
of scientific discovery of new concepts, usually by a direct search in the space of concept
definitions. Doug Lenat s Automated Mathematician, or AM (Davis and Lenat,