usic or even pieces on a chessboard. 1.2.1 Mind and Body The notion of the mind came into our thoughts much later than minds came into existence. Almost all life forms sense the world, and most have eyes, arguably our principal means of perceiving the world around us. The earliest notions of the world were probably that the world was as we saw it. What you see is what there is. Somewhat like the WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) text editors. It is not surprising that the earliest models of the world were geo-centric ones based on the perception of a flat earth (Figure 1.1). This view of the world was drawn from the ideas of Greek philosophers Plato and Aristotle who dwelt at length upon the notion of ideas. For Plato, both an object in the world and the idea of that object were derived from a world of perfect ideas or ideals. Our own ideas, as well as the objects in the world out there, could be imperfect. Aristotle did away with the notion of ideals, and said that ideas were like pictures of the objects they were based on. The ideas were true if they had the same form as the object. The human mind was thus something like a mirror reflecting the world to us. This, of course, takes us for granted. The more modern view is that the notion of l is itself a creation of our mind. FIGURE 1.1 The world we saw was made up of a flat earth, with the heavens rotating around it. It was, however, a challenge to make models of the heavens that could explain the apparently erratic motion of some heavenly bodies, the planets. It was Nicolaus Copernicus (1473-1543) who gave a simpler model which provided a satisfactory explanation for the wanderings of the planets. According to his model, the daily movement of the sun, the moon and the stars was an illusion created by the rotation of the Earth, and that the Earth itself revolved around the sun. This view would have been an anathema to the prevailing human centric view of the world, and Copernicus delayed the publication of his 