at the first word in both these statements is a correct word. This involves correction of real-word errors or those that result in another valid word. Non-word errors that have more than one potential correction also fail in this category. The strategies commonly used find their basis on traditional and statistical natural language processing techniques. 15.6.3 Soundex Algorithm The Soundex algorithm can be effectively used as a simple phonetic based spell checker. It makes use of rules found using the phonetics of the language in question. We discuss this algorithm with reference to English. Developed by Robert Russell and Margaret Odell in the early 20 century, the Soundex algorithm uses a code to check for the closest word. The code was used to index names in the U.S. census. The code for a word consists of its first letter followed by three numbers that encode the remaining consonants. Those consonants that generate the same sound have the same number: Thus the labials B, F, P and V imply the same number viz. 1. Here is the algorithm ~ Remove all punctuation marks and capitalize the letters in the word. Retain the first letter of the word. Remove any occurrence of the letters A, E, [, O, U, H, W, Y apart from the very first letter. Replace thc letters (other than the first) by the numbers shown in Table 15.4. If two or more adjacent letters, not separated by vowels, have the same numeric value, retain only one of them. Return the first four characters; pad with zeroes if there are less than four. Table 15.4 Substitutions for generating the Soundex code Letter(s) B,EP,V C,G,),K,S,X,Z D,T L M,N R Nominally the Soundex code contains Natural Language Processing . 329 First character of word, Code_1, Code_2, Code_3. Table 15.5 shows the Soundex codes for a few words. Table 15.5 Soundex codes for some words Grate, great Network, network Henry, Henary Torn Worn Hom Note that the last three words are different only in the starting alphabet. This algorithm can thus be us