 now know as Al. Work after 1950 During the 1950s several events occurred which marked the real beginning of Al. This was a period noted for the chess playing programs which were developed by researchers like Claude Shannon at MIT (Shannon. 1952, 1955) and Allen Newell 6 Overview of Artificial Intelligence Chap. 1 at the RAND Corporation (Newell and Simon. 1972) Other types of game playing and simulation programs were also being developed during this time. Much effort was being expended on machine translation programs, and there was much optimism for successful language translation using computers (Weaver. 1955). It was felt that the storage of large dictionaries in a computer was basically all that was needed to produce accurate translations from one language to another. Although this approach proved to be too simplistic, it took several years before such efforts were aborted. The mid1950s; are generally recognized as the official birth date of Al when a summer workshop sponsored by IBM was held at Dartmouth College. Attendees at this June 1956 seminar included several of the early pioneers in Al including Herbert Gelernter, Trenchard More, John Mc Carthy, Marvin Minsky, Allen Newell, Nat Rochester, Oliver Selfridge, Claude Shannon, Herbert Simon. and Ray Solomonoff (Newell and Simon, 1972). Much of their discussion focused on the work they were involved in during this period, namely automatic theorem proving and new programming languages. Between 1956 and 1957 the Logic Theorist, one of the first programs for automatic theorem proving, was completed by Newell. Shaw, and Simon (Newell and Simon, 1972). As part of this development, the first list-processing language called IPL (Information Processing Language) was also completed. Other important events of this period include the development of FORTRAN (begun in 1954) and Noam Chomsky's work between 1955 and 1957 on the theory of generative grammars. Chomsky's work had a strong influence on Al in the area of computat