 agent interacts with the world via perception and actions (Figure 7.1). Perception involves sensing the world and assessing the situation. In sophisticated systems, it may involve creating some internal representation of the world, which we can call a mental model. Actions are what the agent does in the domain. Planning involves reasoning about actions that the agent intends to carry out. Planning is the reasoning side of acting (Ghallab et al., 2004). This reasoning involves the representation of the world that the agent has, as also the representation of its own actions. Ze ; one Comin) te A Figure 7.1 A planning agent can perceive the world, and produces actions designed to achieve its objectives. In a static domain, the agent is the only one who acts. A dynamic domain can be modelled by other agencies that can change the world. The objectives of planning are to achieve some desired situation. The objectives could be certain properties of the final state after all actions have been completed, or even along the way in the sequence of states. These could be strict requirements or hard constraints where the objectives have to be achieved completely for success. The objectives could also be soft constraints, or preferences, to be achieved to the extent possible. The planning problem can be described or posed at varying levels of detail. As the detail increases, so does the complexity of the computation. In the simplest planning problems, the domain is static, the agent has complete information of the domain (perception is perfect), actions are instantaneous and their effects are deterministic. The agent knows the world completely, and it can take all facts into account while planning. It is the only one changing the world, and therefore does not have to worry about the world changing while it is planning or executing a plan. The fact that actions are instantaneous implies that there is no notion of time, but only of sequencing of actions. The effects of actions are 