rld and where we have to contend with incomplete information. Mathematical logic connects true statements to other true statements. It is not quite equipped to talk about statements whose truth values are neither unequivocally true nor unequivocally false. Researchers have tried various approaches to handle uncertain knowledge, from probabilistic methods to characterizing conditions under which statements are true, to prescribing degrees of belief. We look at some of these in the latter half of the book. As we move from pure search based methods to more and more use of knowledge, we study the algorithms that have been devised at each stage. Eventually, a truly agile problem solving agent will need to integrate many of these algorithms for solving problems into one system. About the Book This book is a first course in artificial intelligence. The word course here is in the sense of offering, implying that the reader could go on to more detailed offerings in selective areas. It is like the first course of a sumptuous feast, which indeed artificial intelligence promises to be. Every chapter in the book, and in some case even sections in chapters, has enough material to write a book on, and in most cases indeed have books written on them. Our goal in this book is to provide in one place an introduction to the core concepts of artificial intelligence. If these ideas have to be embedded in an agent, whether physical or virtual then other disciplines will be involved for sensing and acting. A physical intelligent agent, for example, may need visual, auditory and tactile sensors and a robotic platform or a speech synthesis system for effecting actions. The related disciplines of speech processing, computer vision and robotics are beyond the scope of this book. We confine ourselves to the cognitive aspects of intelligent agents. The book is meant primarily for the first-time student, most likely in an undergraduate or even postgraduate course. But it could also be useful for