h specialized knowledge bases to produce systems that are less brittle than most of the ones available today. Like CD, CYC represents a specific theory of how to describe the world, and like CD, it can be used for AI tasks such as natural language understanding. CYC, however, is more comprehensive; while CD provided a specific theory of representation for events, CYC contains representations of events, objects, attitudes, and so forth. In addition, CYC is particularly concerned with issues of scale, that is, what happens when we build knowledge bases that contain millions of objects. 10.3.1 Motivations Why should we want to build large knowledge bases at all? There are many reasons, among them: Brittleness Specialized knowledge-based systems are brittle. They cannot cope with novel situations, and their performance degradation is not graceful. Programs built on top of deep, commonsense knowledge about the world should rest on firmer foundations. e Form and Content The techniques we have seen so far for representing and using knowledge may or may not be sufficient for the purposes of AI. One good way to find out is to start coding large amounts of commonsense knowledge and see where the difficulties crop up. In other words, one strategy is to focus temporarily on the content of knowledge bases rather than on their form. e Shared Knowledge -Small knowledge-based systems must make simplifying assumptions about how to represent things like space, time, motion, and structure. If these things can be represented once at a very high level, then domain-specific systems can gain leverage cheaply. Also, systems that share the same primitives can communicate easily with one another. Building an immense knowledge base is a staggering task, however We should ask whether there are any methods for acquiring this knowledge automatically. Here-are two possibilities: 1. Machine Learning--In Chapter 17, we discuss some techniques for automated learning. However, current techniques perm