sentations is a stumbling block for IR. Also, R systems typically operate on large volumes of text, and this presents challenges in terms of devising algorithms that scale up on efficiency across time and space. In addition, ideas from research in Human Computer Interaction can be used to design interfaces that effectively elicit information needs of users. An example of this is the idea of relevance feedback which works as follows. The user is presented with a set of retrieved results and she offers her feedback by identifying those results which are relevant to the query, and those that are not. This feedback is used by the system to automatically reformulate the query and retrieve results again. A simple approach of query reformulation is one that changes the query by including words from relevant documents and excluding words from irrelevant ones. The quality of retrieval of an R system is measured by precision and recall. Precision refers to the proportion of retrieved documents that are relevant. Recall refers to the proportion of relevant documents in the collection that have been retrieved. In the Venn diagram shown in Figure 16.11, the sets RET and REL refer to the set of retrieved results and the set of relevant results given a query, respectively. Precision and Recall can be defined in terms of these as follows: RET 7 REL Precision RET RET 7 REL REL As an example, consider an R system that operates over a collection of 10,000 documents and retrieves 10 documents given a query Q. Let us assume that 6 of the retrieved documents are found to be relevant to Q. The total number of documents in the collection that are relevant to Q is 9. The precision is 6 10 and recall is 6 9. Note that evaluating recall is much harder than evaluating precision, since it is difficult to know a priori all documents that are relevant to a given query. The application needs determine whether an R system should be tuned to maximize precision or recall. For example, precision may b