 experiences into action schemas or procedural rules that we use in our everyday problem solving. For example, a farmer may say that the correct time to sow his crop is after the first rains in the monsoon, or that a red sky foretells a stormy night. Grandma cures for common diseases may dictate that one must starve a fever and feed a cold . Over a period of time, such knowledge, known as heuristic knowledge accrues, and we begin to form notions of how things work and how to solve problems. Your grandmother may have discovered that tapping her radio set at a particular location was instrumental in getting better reception, and your cousin would have the policy of rebooting her computer system at the slightest hint of slowness. Heuristic knowledge is essentially distilled from experience. It embodies a shortcut between pattern (problem) and action (solution). It may be wrong sometimes, in the sense that it may not always be true to reality. But it often is, and that is why such knowledge has survived in competition with other kinds of knowledge. As we get more scientific and as our knowledge about the world increases, we build detailed models of things and processes. Models are representations of reality that help us predict how things will pan out in reality. They allow us to design machines and processes that will bring about what we want to happen in reality, because at some level they simulate reality. One also refers to models as deep knowledge as opposed to shallow heuristic knowledge. Models can take very different forms. They may involve different forms of mathematical tools, or models may be simplified physical artifacts. Thus, an aircraft designer may take inspiration from small physical models, or may do closer to reality wind tunnels experiments to study the lifting ability of a wing design. She may also construct a finite element model on a computer system, or work with other forms of mathematical formulas with a pencil and paper. Models also allow us to