oriented languages, although they have been introduced only recently, have been gaining much popularity. We discuss these languages in Chapter 8. 3.9 SUMMARY In this chapter we introduced LISP, the programming language of Al. We defined LISP syntax and examined a number of built-in functions, including the numeric functions (+, -. . I), and the list manipulation functions (car, cdr, cons, list, append, last, member, and reverse). We also defined a number of predicate functions such as equal, null, numberp, atom, listp, and so on: We then described how to define our own functions using defun. We saw how to use the conditional cond and the logical functions and, or, and not. The input-output functions print, prini, princ, read, terpri. and format were defined and example programs presented. We saw how to write iterative programs with the do, loop, and prog constructs. We saw how to define and use local variables with the let and prog functions. We discussed recursion, and saw examples of its use. We then looked at property lists, a valuable method with which to assign multiple values or properties to variable atoms. Array definitions and examples were briefly introduced, and a few miscellaneous topics such as mapping functions (mapcar), the lambda form, and'internal list representations concluded our treatment of LISP. Finally, we introduced the logic programming language PROLOG, and gave some simple examples of its use. We concluded the chapter with a few comments regarding other Al languages and noted that object oriented languages are described in detail in Chapter 8. . 44 LISP and Other Al Programming Languages Chap. 3 EXERCISES 3.1 Write a LISP program to convert centigrade temperatures to Fahrenheit. 3.2 Define a function called first-element that takes a list as its argument and returns the first top element of thelist 3.3 Define a function called number-of-elements that takes a list as its ony argument and returns the number of top elements in the list. 3.4 De