he bakers; this is an example of semantic selectional restraint. It may be noted that the term anaphora has a broader connotation than just pronoun resolution. Examples of other kinds of anaphora include lexical noun phrase anaphors (the IPL team Kings XI Punjab is referred to as just Kings XI), one anaphora ( There are two teams. The one in red and yellow is East Bengal ) and zero anaphora ( They played well and (they) won the match ). For a more detailed account of various other kinds of anaphora and specific resolution approaches outside the ones mentioned above, refer to (Feldman et al., 2007). 16.3 Applications 16.3.1 Information Retrieval Information Retrieval ( R) is the task of retrieving information from a given collection of documents that satisfies a certain information need. An obvious example is a search engine which is used by 85 of users when looking for some specific information. A central challenge in Information Retrieval is the uncertainty about the information need of the user, and also about the potential utility of the retrieved document(s) in meeting that information need. The system typically has to create underlying representations of the content of documents and match these up against the representation of the query. The system could fail because the representations of the query and of the documents fall short of modelling their actual information content, or because of the shortcomings of the matching process itself. A significant bulk of R research has gone into formalisms models for creating richer representations of the underlying semantic content or user intent. A piece of text, at the surface level, is made up of words. At a deeper level, however, is its meaning and function. The lack of correspondence between deep and surface-level representations is a stumbling block for IR. Also, R systems typically operate on large volumes of text, and this presents challenges in terms of devising algorithms that scale up on efficiency across time