ciated with the retrieval and organization of reconstructive memory. Her system. called CYRUS (Computerized Yale Retrieval and Updating System) stores episodes from the lives of former secretaries of state Cyrus Vance and Edmund Muskie. The episodes are indexed and stored in long-term memory for subsequent use in answering queries posed in English. The system has many of the features we have described above under conceptual indexing. The basic memory model in CYRUS is a network consisting of Episodic Memory Organization Packets (E-MOPs). Each such h-MOP is a frame-like node structure which contains conceptual information related to different categories of episodic events. E-MOPs are indexed in memory by one or more distinguishing features. For example, there are basic E-MOPs for diplomatic meetings with foreign dignitaries, specialized political conferences, traveling, sightseeing, negotiations. State dinners, as well as other basic events related to diplomatic state functions. The diplomatic-meeting E-MOP, called $MEET, contains information which is common to all diplomatic meeting events. The common information which characteriies such an E-MOP is called its content. For example, $MEET might contain the following information: actor Cyrus Vance participants : foreign diplomats topics : international contracts actions participants talk to each other goals : to resolve disputed contract A second type of information contained in h-MOPs are the indices which index either individual episodes or other E.MOPs which have become speciali7attons of their parent h-MOPs. For instance, specific diplomatic meetings are indexed by features unique to the individual meetings such as location, actual topic discussed, or the actual meeting participants. A typical SMEET h-MOP which has indices to two particular event meetings EV I and EV2, is illustrated in Figure If 7. One of the meetings indexed was between Vance and Gro!nyko of the USSR in which they discussed SALT (arms limit talk