ust be
LANGUAGE
used that understands constraints such as T d T directly, without enumerating the
1 1 2
set of pairs of allowable values for (T ,T ). Special solution algorithms (which we do not
1 2
LINEAR discuss here) exist for linear constraints on integer variables that is, constraints, such as
CONSTRAINTS
the one just given, in which each variable appears only in linear form. It can be shown that
NONLINEAR noalgorithm existsforsolving general nonlinearconstraintsonintegervariables.
CONSTRAINTS
206 Chapter 6. Constraint Satisfaction Problems
CONTINUOUS Constraint satisfaction problems with continuous domains are common in the real
DOMAINS
worldandarewidelystudiedinthefieldofoperations research. Forexample,thescheduling
ofexperiments on the Hubble Space Telescope requires very precise timingofobservations;
the start and finish of each observation and maneuver are continuous-valued variables that
must obey a variety of astronomical, precedence, and power constraints. The best-known
category of continuous-domain CS Ps is that of linear programming problems, where con-
straintsmustbelinearequalitiesorinequalities. Linearprogrammingproblemscanbesolved
in time polynomial in the number of variables. Problems with different types of constraints
andobjectivefunctions havealsobeenstudied quadratic programming, second-order conic
programming, andsoon.
In addition to examining the types of variables that can appear in CS Ps, it is useful to
look at the types of constraints. The simplest type is the unary constraint, which restricts
UNARYCONSTRAINT
thevalueofasinglevariable. Forexample,inthemap-coloring problem itcouldbethecase
that South Australians won t tolerate the color green; we can express that with the unary
constraint (cid:16)(SA),SA (cid:7) green(cid:17)
A binary constraint relates two variables. For example, SA (cid:7) NSW is a binary
BINARYCONSTRAINT
constraint. A binary CSP is one with only binary constraints; it can be represented as a
constraint graph, asin Fi