iscl positions on the light sensitise surface. sing the array of number'. certlia low level operations are performed. such as smoothing of nighhoring points to reduce noise. finding outlines of oh1ls or edge elements. thresholding recordit'e niav:Ii1um and minimum values only. depending on some fixed intensity ihi lcvel i. and determining texture, color, and other object features. These irihial processing steps are ones which are Li SC to locate and accentuate object boundaries and other structure within the image. The next stage of processing. the intermediate level, involves connecting. tilling in, and combining boundaries. detcrmining regions. and assigning descriptise labels to objects that have been accentuated in the first stage. This stage builds higher level structures from the lower level elements of tile first stage. When complete. it passes on labeled surfaces such as geometrical objects that may be capable of identification. High-level image processing consists of identifying the important objects in :s.age and their relationships for subsequent dc.;cription as well-defined knoss ledge strcures and hence, for use by a reasoning component. Special types of vision systems may also require three dimensional processing and analysis as well as motion detection and analysis. Sec. 14.1 Introduction 289 The Objectives of Computer Vision Systems. The ultimate goats of computer image understanding is to build systems that equal or exceed the capabilities of human vision systems. Ideally, a computer vision system would be capable of interpreting and describing any complex scene in complete detail. This means that the system must not only be able to identify a myriad of complex objects, but must also be able to reason about the objects, to describe their function and purpose, what has taken place in the scene, why any visible or implied events occurred, what is likely to happen, and what the objects in the scene are capable of doing. Figure 14.3 presents an example 