the methods described in the preceding chapter. At the other extreme, it may be desirable to produce a detailed description of some general scene and provide an interpretation of the function, purpose, intent, and expectations of the objects in the scene. Although this recuiremeni is beyond the current stae-of-the-art, we can say that it will require a gre. many prestored pattern descriptions and much general world knowledge. It will also require improvements on many of the processing techmques described in this chapter. lregion6 (mass-center 2348) (shape-code 24) (area 245) (number-boundary-segments 6) (chain-code 1133300011. . .1 (orientation 85) (borders )region4 (position left-of) (contrast 5)) (region7 (position above) (contrast 2)) (mean-intensity 0.6) (texture light regular) Figure 14.24 Typical description of a segmented region. Sec. 14.5 High-Level Processing 315 Before a scene can be described in terms of high-level structures, prestored 'model descriptions of the objects must be available. These descriptions must be compared with the region descriptions created during the intermediate-level stage. The matching process can take the form of rule instantiations, segmented graph or network matchings, frame instantiations, traversal of a discrimination network (decision tree), or even response to message patterns in an object oriented system. The type of matching will naturally be influenced by the representation scheme chosen for the final Structures. To round out this section, we consider some of the approaches used in the high-level processing stage. In the following section, we consider some complete vision system architectures. Associative networks have become a popular representation scheme for scene descriptions since they show the relationships among the objects as well as object characteristics. A simple example of an outdoor scene representation is illustrated in Figure 14.25. Scene desriptions such as this can be formulated by interpreting region de