AI Classic Paper Award in 1999. According to legend, the name of R1 comes from McDermott, who supposedly said as he was writing it, Three years ago wanted to be a knowledge engineer, and today are one. http: en. wikipedia. org wiki Xcon VAX was originally an acronym for Virtual Address eXtension, both because the VAX was seen as a 32-bit extension of the older 16-bit PDP-11 and because it was a commercial pioneer in using virtual memory to manage this larger address space. http: en. wikipedia.org wiki VAX Traditionally, in contract bridge literature, the four players are called North, South, East and West. This term comes from the neurobiological observation of a refractory period for a neuron, which means that the neuron is not able to fire immediately without first going through a relaxation process. OPS5 Reference, available at http: www.cs.gordon. edu local courses cs323 OPS5 opss5.html The author strongly advises the reader to learn the game of contract bridge. Players often choose the cards to play in accordance to stated conventions that are designed to convey information to the partner. Since the conventions are known, this also means that opponents are privy to this information too. 10 The Latin word for net is rete. wo a a fo) for) o 11 Modifying a WME can be seen as removing it and adding a new one. 12 We can easily generalize this to have more parents. 13 Apparently for commercial reasons. http. en. wikipedia. org wiki Rete algorithm 14 From a secret rule book at Hogwarts not accessible to muggles. 15 And therefore, when people say to one another you see only what you want to see they are probably right. 16 http: mathworld.wolfram.com YoungGirl-OldWomanillusion.html 17 http: www.bbc.co.uk science humanbody tv humansenses programme2.shtml Planning Chapter 7 A agent interacts with the world via perception and actions (Figure 7.1). Perception involves sensing the world and assessing the situation. In sophisticated systems, it may involve creating some inter