rage meaning of mean. One object is the statistical concept of a mean; the other is the particular function that computes the mean in this program. To understand the word mean we need to map it into some concept in our knowledge base. But to do that, we must decide which of these concepts is meant. Because of cases like this, lexical ambiguity is a serious problem, even when the domain of discourse is severely constrained. The process of determining the correct meaning of an individual word is called word sense disambiguation or lexical disambiguation. It is done by associating, with each word in the lexicon, information about the contexts in which each of the word s senses may appear. Each of the words in a sentence can serve as part of the context in which the meanings of the other words must be determined. Sometimes only very straightforward information about each word sense is necessary. For example, the baseball field interpretation of diamond could be marked as a LOCATION. Then the correct meaning of diamond in the sentence I ll meet you at the diamand could easily be determined if the fact that at requires a TIME or a LOCATION as its object were recorded as part of the lexical entry for at. Such simple properties of word senses are called semantic markers. Other useful semantic markers are PHYSICAL-OBJECT e ANIMATE-OBJECT e ABSTRACT-OBJECT Using these markers, the correct meaning of diamond in the sentence I dropped my diamond can be computed. As part of its lexical entry, the verb drop will specify that its object must be a PHYSICAL302 Artificial Intelligence Sera e SNG SC ESTE TEA OBJECT. The gemstone meaning of diamond will be marked as a PHYSICAL-OBJECT. So it will be selected as the appropriate meaning in this context. This technique has been extended by Wilks [1972; 1975a; 1975b] in his preference semantics, which relies on the notion that requirements, such as the one described above for an object that is a LOCATION, are rarely hard-and-fast demands. R