, including monitoring, filtering and state estima-
MONITORING
tion. Equation (4.6) iscalled arecursive state estimator because it computes the new belief
FILTERING
statefromthepreviousoneratherthanbyexaminingtheentireperceptsequence. Iftheagent
STATEESTIMATION
is not to fall behind, the computation has to happen as fast as percepts are coming in. As
RECURSIVE
the environment becomes more complex, the exact update computation becomes infeasible
and the agent willhave to compute an approximate belief state, perhaps focusing on the im-
plications ofthe percept fortheaspects ofthe environment that are ofcurrent interest. Most
work on this problem has been done for stochastic, continuous-state environments with the
tools of probability theory, as explained in Chapter 15. Here we will show an example in a
discreteenvironment withdetrministic sensorsandnondeterministic actions.
The example concerns a robot with the task of localization: working out where it is,
LOCALIZATION
given amap of the world and a sequence of percepts and actions. Ourrobot is placed in the
maze-like environment of Figure 4.18. The robot is equipped with four sonar sensors that
tell whether there is an obstacle the outer wall or a black square in the figure in each of
thefourcompassdirections. Weassumethatthesensors give perfectly correct data, andthat
the robot has a correct map of the enviornment. But unfortunately the robot s navigational
systemisbroken,sowhenitexecutesa Moveaction,itmovesrandomlytooneoftheadjacent
squares. Therobot staskistodetermineitscurrentlocation.
Suppose the robot has just been switched on, so it does not know where it is. Thus its
initial belief state b consists of the set of all locations. The the robot receives the percept
12 Theusualapologiestothosewhoareunfamiliarwiththeeffectofsmallchildrenontheenvironment.
146 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
(a)Possiblelocations ofrobotafter E NSW
1
(b)Possiblelocations ofrobot After E NSW,E NS
1 2
Figure4.18 Possiblepositionsofth