atabout Qn asn ?
e. Explain how to do probabilistic inference in Bayesian networks, assuming that Qn is
available. Isthisapractical waytodoinference?
14.19 Thisexerciseexploresthestationary distribution for Gibbssamplingmethods.
a. Theconvexcomposition ,q ;1 ,q ofq andq isatransition probability distri-
1 2 1 2
bution that first chooses one of q and q with probabilities and 1 , respectively,
1 2
and then applies whichever is chosen. Prove that if q and q are in detailed balance
1 2
with , then their convex composition is also in detailed balance with . (Note: this
result justifies avariant of GIBBS-ASK inwhichvariables arechosen atrandom rather
thansampledinafixedsequence.)
b. Prove that if each of q and q has as its stationary distribution, then the sequential
1 2
composition q q q alsohas asitsstationary distribution.
1 2
METROPOLIS 14.20 The Metropolis Hastingsalgorithmisamemberofthe MCM Cfamily;assuch,itis
HASTINGS
designedtogeneratesamplesx(eventually)accordingtotargetprobabilities (x). (Typically
Exercises 565
weare interested in sampling from (x) P(x e).) Like simulated annealing, Metropolis (cid:2)
PROPOSAL Hastingsoperatesintwostages. First,itsamplesanewstatex fromaproposaldistribution
DISTRIBUTION
q(x
(cid:2) x),giventhecurrent
state x. Then,itprobabilistically acceptsorrejects x
(cid:2)
according to
ACCEPTANCE theacceptanceprobability
PROBABILITY (cid:13) (cid:14) (x (cid:2) )q(x x (cid:2) ) (x
(cid:2) x) min 1, . (x)q(x(cid:2) x)
Iftheproposal isrejected, thestateremainsat x.
a. Consider an ordinary Gibbs sampling step for a specific variable X . Show that this
i
step, considered as a proposal, is guaranteed to be accepted by Metropolis Hastings.
(Hence,Gibbssamplingisaspecialcaseof Metropolis Hastings.)
b. Showthatthetwo-stepprocessabove,viewedasatransition probability distribution, is
indetailed balancewith .
14.21 Three soccer teams A, B, and C, play each other once. Each match is between two
teams, and can be won, drawn, orlost. Each team has afixed,