 are devices to capture nuggets of distilled knowledge. One can benefit from the accumulated knowledge of an author far removed in time and space simply by reading her book. Languages like English, Urdu and Kiswahili have been the languages for knowledge representation for us humans. But computers are not yet completely natural language enabled. They need crisp, unambiguous and precise formalisms for representing and manipulating knowledge. In the following chapters, we will explore various issues in representation and reasoning with knowledge, the role of memory and language, the formation of concepts, approaches to deal with uncertain knowledge and machine learning strategies to acquire knowledge. 11.1 Agents The need for knowledge representation will also arise if we want to devise autonomous systems. Such systems, known as agents (Woolridge, 2000), would have the following properties. They would exist for extended periods of time (are persistent), would have broad goals from which they would devise immediate goals (are goal oriented), would sense the surroundings, invoke goals, and act (are situated and proactive), and would communicate with their owners and other agents (have social ability). Such programs would be running all the time, deciding themselves upon their course of action, in contrast to a user invoking a program with a specific input and required output. For an agent to act out its decisions, it must be embodied in some environment. It is obviously easier to implement agents in cyberspace, circumventing the difficulties of perception in a physical world. We are all aware of viruses, worms and other forms of malware let loose on the internet. However, there have been efforts to build physical agents as well. The most famous was the Remote Agent architecture (Muscettola et al., 1998) in NASA s Deep Space One spacecraft. The need for autonomy here is acute because it takes a long time for information to travel over astronomical distances, and by the t