n see and niove around, perform mechanical tasks, and understand human speech. The field of linguistics shares an interest in the theory of grammars and languages with Al. Both fields have a desire to build a well-founded theory, and to see the development of systems that understand natural languages, that can synthesize speech, and that are capable of language translations. Finally, Al has some overlap with almost all fields in that it offers the potential for broad applications. Applications have already been proven in such areas as medicine, law, manufacturing, economics, banking, biology, chemistry, defense, civil engineering, and aerospace to name a few. And, it is only a matter of time before applications will permeate the home. 1.5 SUMMARY In this introductory chapter, we have defined Al and terms closely related to the field. We have shown how important Al will become in the future as it will form the foundation for a number of new consumer commodities, all based on knowledge. It was noted that countries willing to commit appropriate resources to research in this field will emerge as the world's economic leaders in the not too distant future. We briefly reviewed early work in Al. considering ftrst developments prior to 1950, the period during which the first commercial computers were introduced. We then looked at post-1950 developments during which Al was officially launched as a separate field of computer science. Fields which overlap with and are closely related to Al were also considered, and the areas of commonality between the two presented. - -- . rw Knowledge: General Concepts The important role that knowledge plays in building intelligent systems is now widely accepted by practictioners in Al. Recognition of this important fact was necessary before successfu L real-world systems could be built. Because of this importance, a significant amount of coverage is devoted to knowledge in this text. We will be looking at the important roles it plays in all o