ing knoss I. edge is continualk being revised. and less important knowledge is er,idualk being forgotten. Our memories are continually being reor L'anhlcd to expand ttu r recall and reasoning abilities. This process leads to iinpro ed memor\ performance ih ri tu h out most of our lives. When dcxc loping computer memories for intelligent ' s ICilts . 55 C I t1\ -,,t ill ssiine useful insight b learning \% hat xx e can from human meinoi sx sic ins c xx ou Id expect ci iniputer memors 5i5l ls tsemosiue of the same feat n F rc s or to example. h u loan memories tend he limitless in capaci1 .anxl ihe pit is ide a uniform grade of recall sers ice, independent of the amount of in Iorinaii'ii sitired For later use, xxe ha\e sunititarucd these and other desirable characteristics that 'c feel alleffective computer memory organh/ation sxsteili should possess I. It should he possible to add and integrate nevi, knowledge in mernoli, as needed Without concern for limitations in size 2. Any organizational scheme chosen should facilitate the reinemberint! pro cess Thus, it should he possible to locate ativ stored item of knowledge e I!i entl from its content alone. 3. The addition of more knowledge to memory should have no advnrse et Ic..ts oil ax'cessihi Iit of items already stored there. Thus, the search tulle should not increase appreciably with the amount of information stored 4. The organi ation scheme should Facilitate the recognition of sininilar items of know ledge. This is essential for reasoning and learning functions It Slitl Ccsis that existing knowledge he used to determine the location and manner in xx h ich new knowledge is integrated into memor\ 5. The nnrganilation should facilitate the process of consolidating recurrent inc dciii or episodes and torgett i ng' ' knowledge when it is no In luger \ '111d tnt no longer needed i These characterist cs suggest that memory he organized around ,n lusters of knowledge Related clusters should be grouped and stored in close p