an equivalently be written as, 13x Sy (Farmer(x) Donkey(y) Owns(x, y) Beats(x, y)) which Peirce could draw with the help of two ovals as shown in Figure 14.37. The existential graphs of Peirce are the starting point for the conceptual graphs of Sowa. The idea of constructing networks of nodes to capture relationships in a systematic manner has been explored by many researchers. The CD structures of Schank are also networks built on a well defined vocabulary of CD actions and states (see Chapter 13). Most other efforts use the words from natural languages to build their networks. One notable example is the network representations used in the Semantic Network Processing System (SNePS) (Maida and Shapiro, 1982), (Shapiro and Rapaport, 1986), (Shapiro, 2000). Figure 14.38 shows the SNePS representation for Sue thinks that Bob believes that a dog is eating a bone. A farmer owns a bea 7 FIGURE 14.37 Peirce s existential graph for the sentence f a farmer owns a donkey, then he beats it. The oval is a negation of all that it encloses. Theme Bob as M4) Class ss Agent Member FIGURE 14.38 The sentence Sue thinks that Bob believes that a dog is eating a bone as represented in SNePS (figure adapted from (Sowa, 2006)). Patient The nodes labelled M represent propositions. Observe that a proposition can be the subject matter of another proposition; something that we have seen needs a process of reification in FOL. Proposition M, asserts that Sue thinks that Mp is true. Mz says that Bob believes that M3 is true 2. M3 says that B, ate Bo, My says that B, is a dog, and Ms says that By is a bone. The specific relation between two nodes is specified by labels on the edges that are not shown here. Sowa solved the problem of having to label edges by introducing them as relation nodes. The same sentence represented in a conceptual graph is depicted in Figure 14.39. Proposition: Proposition: (Agent) Eat (Pass) Bone FIGURE 14.39 The sentence Sue thinks that Bob believes that a dog is eating 