an be added are determined by default rules. The set of default rules Dp together with the first order theory F form a default theory F. p that augments the first order theory F. The default rules, as described by Raymond Reiter, have the following format, a: B The rule can be read as follows. If a is true and it is consistent to believe B then 6 may be added as an assumption (or inference). Here, a is the prerequisite for believing 0 and B is a justification. The justification says that it is consistent to believe B, which means that there is no support for 7. The association between being friends and chatting from the previous section can be captured in the following default rule. Friend(x, y) : Isolated(x)a Isolated() Chat(x, y) The variables in the rule are treated as free variables and the rule can be viewed as a collection of ground rules of the form, Friend(aditi,shubhagata): Isolated(aditi), Isolated(shubhagata) Chat(aditi,shubhagata) The rule says that jf it is consistent to believe that Aditi and Shubhagata are not isolated then one can assume that they chat, given that they are friends. And since KB3 does not entail either solated(aditi) or solated(shubhagata), it is consistent to believe the opposite, and add Chat(aditi, shubhagata) to the set of beliefs. Adding a new formula extends the default theory and an extension of a default theory is the maximal set of (consistent) beliefs that a default theory E.D supports. A set of sentences is an extension of a default theory ED . if it contains all assumptions that can be consistently added, and the inferences that can be made from the first theory F along with the added assumptions. ock iff FU 6 a B e D, ack, PeF ro A default rule of the form a: 0 0 is called a normal rule. Normal rules can be used to express rules like birds fly , Bird(tweety) : Flies(tweety) Flies(tweety) Assume the knowledge base contains only one sentence Bird(tweety). Here we can see that Bird(tweety) is already in the extension (the gi