7.22 Six Positive and Negative Examples of the Concept Elephant Formal techniques have been applied to a number of other learning problems. For example, given positive and negative examples of strings in some regular language, can we efficiently induce the finite automaton that produces all and only the strings in that language? The answer is no; an exponential number of computational steps is required [Keams and Valiant, 1989].7 However, if we allow the learner to make specific queries (e.g., Is string x in the language? ), then the problem is leamable [Angluin, 1987]. It is difficult to tell how such mathematical studies of learning will affect the ways in which we solve AI problems in practice. After all, people are able to solve many exponentially hard problems by using knowledge to constrain the space of possible solutions. Perhaps mathematical theory will one day be used to quantify the use of such knowledge, but this prospect seems far off. For a critique of formal learning theory as well as some of the inductive techniques described in Section 17.5, see Amsterdam [1988]. 17.10 NEURAL NET LEARNING AND GENETIC LEARNING The very first efforts in machine learning tried to mimic animal learning at a neural level. These efforts were quite different from the symbolic manipulation methods we have seen so far in this chapter. Collections of idealized neurons were presented with stimuli and prodded into changing their behavior via forms of reward However, the number of examples must be /inear in the number of relevant attributes, i.e., the number of attributes that appear in the learned conjunction. 7 The proof of this result rests on some unproven hypotheses about the complexity of certain number theoretic functions. 374 Artificial Intelligence and punishment, Researchers hoped that by imitating the learning mechanisms of animals. they might build learning machines from very simple parts. Such hopes proved elusive. However, the field of neural network learning has se