 VALUE = Pass-Thresh PATH = BEST-PATH The effectiveness of the alpha-beta procedure depends greatly on the order in which paths are examined. If the worst paths are A] @=3) examined first, then no cutoffs at all will occur. But, of course, if the best path were known in advance so that it could be guaranteed to be examined first, we would not need to bother with the search process. If, however, we knew how effective the pruning technique B }(3) c D is in the perfect case, we would have an upper bound on its performance in other situations. It is possible to prove that if the nodes are perfectly ordered, then the number of terminal nodes D E| IG H 1 considered by a search to depth d using alpha-beta pruning is 8) (2) approximately equal to twice the number of terminal nodes generated by a search to depth d/2 without alpha-beta [Knuth and Moore, 1975]. Fig. 12.6 A Futility Cutoff A doubling of the depth to which the search can be pursued is a significant gain. Even though all of this improvement cannot typically be realized, the alpha-beta technique is a significant improvement to the minimax search procedure.- For a more detailed study of the average branching factor of the alpha-beta procedure, see Baudet [1978] and Pearl [1982]. The idea behind the alpha-beta procedure can be extended to cut off additional paths that appear to be at best only slight improvements over paths that have already been explored. In step 4(d), we cut off the search if the path we were exploring was not better than other paths already found. But consider the situation shown in Fig. 12.6. After examining node G, we see that the best we can hope for if we make move C is a score of 3.2. We know that if we make move B we are guaranteed a score of 3. Since 3.2 is only very slightly better than 3, we should perhaps terminate our exploration of C now. We could then devote more time to exploring other parts of the tree where there may be more to gain. Terminating the exploration of a subtree that o