yfactorsofmanyotherruleshadtobe tweaked whennewruleswere
added. Forthesereasons, Bayesiannetworkshavelargelysupplanted rule-based methodsfor
uncertain reasoning.
14.7.2 Representing ignorance: Dempster Shafer theory
DEMPSTER SHAFER The Dempster Shafer theory is designed to deal with the distinction between uncertainty
THEORY
and ignorance. Rather than computing the probability of a proposition, it computes the
probability that the evidence supports the proposition. This measure of belief is called a
belieffunction,written Bel(X).
BELIEFFUNCTION
We return to coin flipping for an example of belief functions. Suppose you pick a
coin from a magician s pocket. Given that the coin might or might not be fair, what belief
should you ascribe to the event that it comes up heads? Dempster Shafer theory says that
because you have no evidence either way, you have to say that the belief Bel(Heads) 0
and also that Bel( Heads) 0. This makes Dempster Shafer reasoning systems skeptical
in a way that has some intuitive appeal. Now suppose you have an expert at your disposal
who testifies with 90 certainty that the coin is fair (i.e., he is 90 sure that P(Heads) 0.5). Then Dempster Shafer theory gives Bel(Heads) 0.9 0.5 0.45 and likewise
Bel( Heads) 0.45. Thereisstilla10percentage point gap thatisnotaccounted forby
theevidence.
The mathematical underpinnings of Dempster Shafer theory have a similar flavor to
those of probability theory; the main difference is that, instead of assigning probabilities
to possible worlds, the theory assigns masses to sets of possible world, that is, to events.
MASS
The masses still must add to 1 over all possible events. Bel(A) is defined to be the sum of
masses for all events that are subsets of (i.e., that entail) A, including A itself. With this
definition,Bel(A)and Bel( A)sumtoatmost1,andthegap theintervalbetween Bel(A)
and1 Bel( A) isofteninterpreted asbounding theprobability of A.
Aswithdefaultreasoning,thereisaprobleminconnectingbeliefstoactions. W