 images of objects, and health maintenance goals such as performing an engine calibration activity within a 24-hour window, before approaching the target. The MM system accepts goals from EXEC and decides upon the full set of goals to be achieved over the next planning window. It then requests the PS to generate a plan. Planner Scheduler(PS) The RA uses a constraint based temporal planner and resource scheduler PS. It produces flexible concurrent temporal plans that satisfy trajectory constraints. The plan constrains the activity of each spacecraft subsystem. The EXEC takes up each activity as a separate thread and makes the finer grained decisions for actual execution. The planner uses a notion of timelines described later to represent different activities. Figure 10.29 illustrates two timelines depicting the fact that the onboard camera can be used to take a picture of an object B, only during the interval when the camera is pointing towards B. The timelines Camera and Attitude are shown with three intervals, each depicting the activity, or lack of it, for the two attributes of the system. Camera Idle TakePicture (B) Idle Attitude Tum (A, B) PointingTo (B) Turn (B, C) RRR ae time FIGURE 10.29 Timelines in the Remote Agent planner. The Camera timeline describes the status of the camera on board, and Attitude timeline describes the spacecraft orientation. The TakePicture(B) action should be during the PointingTo(B) interval. The reader would have observed that the timelines do not distinguish between states (e.g. PointingTo) and actions (e.g. Turn). The RA employs the following structural principles in modelling the domain. State Variable Principle The evolution of the system at any time is described by a set of finite state variables. Token Principle A single representative primitive called token is sufficient to describe the evolution of system state variables over time. We look at the plan representation in a little more detail later. Mode Identification and Reco