extreme cases, a complete change of representational form may be required in either one or both structures before a match can be attempted. This will be the case, for example, when one visual object is represented as a vector of pixel gray levels and objects to be matched are represented as descriptions in predicate logic or some other high level statements. A direct comparison is impossible unless one form has been transformed into the other. In subsequent chapters we will see examples of many problems where exact matches are inappropriate, and some form of partial matching is more meaningful. Typically in such cases, one is interested in finding a best match between pairs of structures. This will be the case in object classification problems, for example, when object descriptions are subject to corruption by noise or distortion. In such cases, a measure of the degree of match may also be required. Other types of partial matching may require finding a match between certain key e Jernents while ignoring all other elements in the pattern. For example. a human language input Unit should be flexible enough to recognize any of the following three statements as expressing a choice of preference for the low-calorie food item. I prefer the low-calorie choice. I want the low-calorie item. The low-calorie one please. Recognition of the intended request can he achieved by matching against ke) words in a template containing "low-calorie" and ignoring other. words except. perhaps, negative modifiers. 190 Matching Techniques Chap, 10 Finally, some problems may obviate the need for a form of fuzzy matching where an entity's degree of membership in one or more classes is appropriate. Some classj Ijctjon problems will apply here if the boundaries betieen the classes are not distinct, and an object may belong to more than one class. Figure 10.1 illustrates the general match process where an input description is being compared with other descriptions. As stressed earlier, the term ob