 Sam was very hungry . Sam, being a bear, is known to like honey, and TALE-SPIN would create a D-CONT goal for Sam, which would link to a D-KNOW goal in which Sam wants to know where some honey is. If the initial settings said that Betty bee had some honey then the program would create a goal for Sam wanting to get the honey from Betty. At this point, TALE-SPIN would ask the user how honest Sam was, and whether Sam thought Betty was vain, and whether Sam liked Betty. Now if Sam was honest and liked Betty, he could not possibly THREATEN her, and since she was not vain, flattery would not work either. Sam decides to persuade her by means of a falsehood, and TALE-SPIN creates the goal, Sam wanted Betty to fly away from her beehive We will not go into the details here but in the story generated by TALE-SPIN, Sam decides that if he tells Betty where a flower is, she might go off to the flower (and therefore not be at the beehive). So Sam goes over to Betty and tells her about the flower, and Betty being famished goes off to the flower, and Sam gets his opportunity to help himself to some honey from Betty s beehive. Generating the events and states that make up the story is only the first step. Converting the output of TALE-SPIN into an enchanting tale requires rhetorical and language skills. The storyteller needs to decide what conceptualizations to choose to convey, and how to embellish the linguistic output to avoid it being monotonous (see (Mann and Thompson, 1988), (McKeown, 1992), (Hovy, 1993), (Somayajulu, 1998)). That is beyond the scope of this book. We only illustrate the need for doing so by looking at an excerpt generated by TALE-SPIN (Meehan, 1981). The words in the original output were all in upper case. Observe that the action begins only in the second paragraph! Once upon a time John bear lived in a cave. John knew that John was in his cave. There was a beehive in a maple tree. Tom bee knew that the beehive was in the maple tree. Tom was in his beehive. To