el matching or description satisfaction. Region segmentation may be accomplished by region splitting, by region growing (also-called region merging), or by a combination of the two. When splitting is used, the process proceeds in a top-down manner. The image is split successively into smaller and smaller homogeneous pieces until some criteria are satisfied. When growing regions, the process proceeds in a bottom-up fashion. Individual pixels or small groups of pixels are successively merged into coittiguous, homogeneous areas. A combined splitting-growing approach will use both bottom-up and top-down techniques. Regions are usually assumed to be disjointed entities which partition the image such that (I) a given pixel can appear in a single region only, (2) subregions are composed of connected pixels, (3) different regions are disjoint areas, and (4) the complete image area is given by the union of all regions. Regions are usually defined by some homogeneous property such that all pixels belonging to the region satisfy the property, and pixels not satisfying the property lie in a different region. Note that a region need not consist of contiguous pixels only since some objects may be split or covered by occluding surfaces. Condition 2 is needed to insure that all regions are accounted for and that they fill up the complete image area. In region splitting, the process begins with an entire image which is successively divided into smaller regions which exhibit some coherence in features. One effective method is to apply multiple thresholding levels which can isolate regions having homogeneous features. Histograms are first obtained to establish the threshold levels. This may require masking portions of the image to achieve effective separation of complex objects. Each threshold level can then produce a binary image consisting of all of the objects which exceed the thresholded level. Once the binary regions are formed, they are easily delineated, separated, and marked f