those that are feasible. In general, one would like to use constraint propagation (see Chapter 9) to find out what values of other variables are feasible, but it turns out that this is not always possible. Consider the example of two resistances R17 and Ro in series as shown in Figure 17.8. Figure 17.8 Constraint propagation is insufficient to solve for V2. Given the constraints, IR Ral I, BS Io I4Ry Vy Vo loRo a V2- V3 and given that V, and V3 0 No constraint has enough information to determine the value of any of the unknowns, , 2, or V2. At the same time, it is clear to us that the only consistent solution in the domain ,0,- is V2 , 1, , and Ip . de Kleer calls such systems inherently simultaneous because they cannot be solved by propagation of values, and require approaches to solve simultaneous equations. However, given that equality over coarse scales'! has to be handled with care, one cannot carry forward the method of substituting equals for equals. Instead, ENVISION resorts to Generate and Test based approach, where Constraint Propagation is not possible. We look at the task of predicting the future with an example in the representation scheme introduced by Benjamin Kuipers. 17.2.5 Qualitative Simulation with QSIM A comprehensive approach to Qualitative Simulation is embodied in the algorithm QSI M developed by Benjamin Kuipers (1986; 1994). The QS M program, available at the Universty of Texas at Austin site ?, has proven to be a handy tool for development of QR systems. It extends reasoning over a quantity space with multiple landmark values. Let a variable X over a continuous domain have a set of ordered landmarks Lo Ly ... Lp, where Lo is the minimum value that X can take, and L, is the maximum value that X can take. QS M represents the qualitative value of the variable with a pair qmag, qdir where, qmag L, if X is on the landmark Z; (L, L,,,) if X1s between L, and L,,, and, qdir inc if the value of Y increasing, that is 4 ,, is positive std if the valu