ght young human into becoming a chess master? Or can a machine learning the bridge playing system learn the concept of a backwash squeeze? A counter question is that if can play it, does it really matter whether or not it can explain it to a human? Maybe like computer programs that beat us at chess without have a notion of what zug-zwang is, will a computer bridge player execute the backwash squeeze without knowing what it is doing? We wait with bated breadth. 1 In the current day, though always connected to the world, we suffer from a surfeit of information but that has similar implications on access of relevant information. 2 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Tamagotchi 3 Marvin, the Paranoid Android, in The Hitch Hiker s Guide to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams is afflicted with severe depression and boredom, in part because he has a brain the size of a planet which he is seldom, if ever, given the chance to use. See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Marvin the Paranoid Android See for example http: www. rci.rutgers.edu cfs 472 html Learn Winston.html odt and Plaza, 1994) Agnar Aamodt, Enric Plaza: Case-based Reasoning: Foundational Is ethodological Variations, and System Approaches: Al Communications, Vol. 7, No.1, pp. 39-59. n and Walden, 1992) Timothy L. Acorn, Sherry H. Walden: Smart: Support: Management Auton 2asoning Technology for Compaq Customer Service. In A. Carlisle Scott, Philip Klahr (E oceedings of the The Fourth Conference on Innovative Applications of Artificial Intelligence (IAA AAI, pp. 3-18. wala, 2000) R. Agarwala, D.L. Applegate, D. Maglott, G.D. Schuler, A.A. Schaffler: A Fas salable Radiation Hybrid Map Construction and Integration Strategy. Genome Research 10, pp. 34. et al., 1974) Alfred V. Aho, John E. Hopcroft, Jeffrey D. Ullman: The Design and Analy: omputer Algorithms, Addison-Wesley Series. In Computer Science and Information Proce: Jdison-Wesley. re et al., 2009) Alexandre Albore, H ctor Palacios, Hector Geffner: A Translation-Based Appro ontin