 Masters, or equivalently B, M, P Hands-on: No, Yes or equivalently N, Y The above schema has been adopted from Table 15.3 by replacing numerical data for the attribute Experience with nominal types by replacing 0-5 years with a value Low, 5-15 with Medium, and more than 15 with High. Given the above schema, the following are some concept hypotheses. The schema for the hypotheses is Experience, Education, Hands-on ?, ?, ? is the concept that matches all employees. . Medium, ?, ? matches those employees that have Experience Medium Low, ?, Yes matches the employees with Low experience who are Hands-on. Medium, ?, will not match any employee. An inconsistent hypothesis. Given the attribute schema, the first two attributes can take 4 values each, including ? , and the third one 3 values. Assuming that we count the different inconsistent hypotheses as 1, since they are all semantically the same, matching no elements, we have a total of 4 4 3 1 49 distinct hypotheses in the hypotheses space H. These hypotheses are organized into a partial order defined by the more general than relation. A hypothesis h; is more general than a hypothesis h,, if the set of elements described by h, is a subset of the set described by h;. Figure 18.7 depicts a part of this partial order for our example. FIGURE 18.7 The hypotheses space is structured into a partial order by the more-general-than relation. The figure depicts a fragment of the partial order. Let us categorize the employees based on their salary. The categories are, Low: Salary range 2000-5000 Medium: Salary range 5001-10500 High: Salary range 10501-15500 VeryHigh: Salary 15500 Each of these can be thought of as a concept. Given the database in Table 15.3, we have the target concept as defined by the database. The task is to explore the hypothesis space and find a hypothesis that matches the given training data. We look at two algorithms described by Mitchell (1997) that look at the training examples and navigate the hypotheses sp