olumn.)
3.6 Givea complete problem formulation foreach of the following. Choose aformulation
thatisprecise enoughtobeimplemented.
a. Using only four colors, you have to color a planar map in such a way that no two
adjacentregionshavethesamecolor.
b. A 3-foot-tall monkey is in a room where some bananas are suspended from the 8-foot
ceiling. Hewould like to get the bananas. Theroom contains twostackable, movable,
climbable3-foot-high crates.
114 Chapter 3. Solving Problemsby Searching
G
S
Figure3.31 Ascenewithpolygonalobstacles. S and Garethestartandgoalstates.
c. Youhave aprogram that outputs the message illegal input record when feda certain
file of input records. You know that processing of each record is independent of the
otherrecords. Youwanttodiscoverwhatrecordisillegal.
d. Youhavethreejugs,measuring12gallons,8gallons,and3gallons,andawaterfaucet.
Youcanfillthejugsuporemptythemoutfromonetoanotherorontotheground. You
needtomeasureoutexactlyonegallon.
3.7 Considertheproblemoffindingtheshortestpathbetweentwopointsonaplanethathas
convex polygonal obstacles as shown in Figure 3.31. This is an idealization of the problem
thatarobothastosolvetonavigateinacrowdedenvironment.
a. Suppose the state space consists of all positions (x,y) in the plane. How many states
arethere? Howmanypathsaretheretothegoal?
b. Explainbrieflywhytheshortestpathfromonepolygonvertextoanyotherinthescene
must consist of straight-line segments joining some of the vertices of the polygons.
Defineagoodstatespacenow. Howlargeisthisstatespace?
c. Definethenecessaryfunctionstoimplementthesearchproblem,includingan ACTIONS
functionthattakesavertexasinputandreturnsasetofvectors,eachofwhichmapsthe
currentvertextooneoftheverticesthatcanbereachedinastraightline. (Donotforget
the neighbors on the same polygon.) Use the straight-line distance for the heuristic
function.
d. Applyoneormoreofthealgorithms inthischaptertosolvea rangeofproblemsinthe
domain,andcommentontheirperformance.
3.8 Onpage 68, wesaid that wew