 diverse efforts. In that sense, humans have done the right thing. An agent can do the right thing only when the agent knows the situation. Intelligence is perhaps most associated with the faculty of understanding; the ability to perceive the world around us and comprehend the meanings of signs and symbols, including language; the ability to grasp the situation. A self aware agent will be able to conceptualize itself in a situation, choose the goals to achieve and the actions to achieve those goals. Taking to one s heels on espying a tiger in one s vicinity may be an act of cowardice, but more importantly is an act of intelligence derived from understanding the situation. The intelligent student will observe the teacher s face go red with anger and refrain from throwing that piece of chalk at his neighbour. The enthusiastic baseball player, who is not a blockhead, will realize that the accumulating dark clouds imply impending rain and will not implore his friends to hang on. Having evolved a mind in which one can see oneself in the world, we have a situation in which individual human beings have their own personalized goals. That is, our individual goals are not necessarily in tune with the goal of the tribe, or community, or even the species. The goals of the species are long term, whereas the individual goals may be of shorter term. Long term goals and short term goals can often be in conflict, and whether one s choices or actions are intelligent or not would depend upon the context they are evaluated in. Thus, rampant consumption and exploitation of our earth s resources may be intelligent in the context of a few lifespans, but stupid from a longer term perspective. Individual goals may themselves be over varying time frames. Enjoying junk food in front of the television set may serve an immediate goal, but may not be a great idea over the long term, specially if it becomes a habit. Again, one sees that actions may be intelligent with respect to short term goals,