o the airport on time. The agent forms a plan, A , that involves leaving home 90
90
minutes before the flight departs and driving at a reasonable speed. Even though the airport
is only about 5 miles away, a logical taxi agent will not be able to conclude with certainty
that Plan A will get us to the airport in time. Instead, it reaches the weaker conclusion
90 Plan A willget usto theairport in time, aslong asthe cardoesn t break down orrun out
90
ofgas,and Idon tgetintoanaccident,andtherearenoaccidentsonthebridge,andtheplane
doesn t leave early, and nometeorite hits the car, and .... None ofthese conditions can be
480
Section13.1. Actingunder Uncertainty 481
deducedforsure,sotheplan ssuccesscannotbeinferred. Thisisthequalificationproblem
(page268),forwhichwesofarhaveseennorealsolution.
Nonetheless, in some sense A is in fact the right thing to do. What do we mean by
90
this? Aswediscussed in Chapter2,wemeanthatoutofalltheplansthatcouldbeexecuted,
A isexpected tomaximize theagent s performance measure (wheretheexpectation isrel-
90
ative to the agent s knowledge about the environment). The performance measure includes
getting to the airport in time for the flight, avoiding a long, unproductive wait at the airport,
andavoidingspeedingticketsalongtheway. Theagent sknowledgecannotguaranteeanyof
these outcomes for A , but it can provide some degree of belief that they will be achieved.
90
Other plans, such as A , might increase the agent s belief that it will get to the airport on
180
time, but also increase the likelihood of a long wait. The right thing to do the rational
decision therefore depends on both the relative importance of various goals and the likeli-
hood that, and degree to which, they will be achieved. The remainder of this section hones
theseideas,inpreparation forthedevelopmentofthegeneraltheories ofuncertainreasoning
andrationaldecisions thatwepresent inthisandsubsequent chapters.
13.1.1 Summarizing uncertainty
Let s consider an example of uncertain rea