 call such knowledge as semantic knowledge or knowledge about the meaning of terms. Ontologies are categorizations of things, defining them relative to each other, separating categories into classes based on the differences between them, and clustering them together under common classes based on similarities and shared properties. Some of the recent work in ontologies has been motivated by the designs of the next generation semantic web and representation using description logics. We will look at these concepts in more detail in subsequent chapters. The other kind of knowledge that we have is episodic knowledge or knowledge about things that happen, or events. Such knowledge is rooted in experience and memory, and relates different events together. For example, one might remember that eating an apple makes one feel better when one is hungry, and therefore eating an apple is a solution if the goal is to be not hungry, or that when you go and sit in a restaurant, it is normal and expected for someone to approach you to ask what you would like to eat. Such knowledge allows us to go about the world without explicitly going into a search based quest to determine consequences of incoming information or our proposed actions. The fundamental question from the Al perspective remains though. How do we represent an apple or a carrot? When we think of a carrot, the first thing that often comes up is a visual image in our minds. Visual images are some things conjured up by our minds, rather than images received and represented in our brains. We are still far away from figuring out reasoning at the visual level. The image of a carrot in turn usually triggers other memories, for example the image of Bugs Bunny leaning against a fence, carrot in hand. Our representation of the concept of a carrot would depend upon what the purpose is; if we want to draw it, it has shape and colour; if we want to put it in a salad it has grateable structure; if we want to talk of its food qualities,