CRIPTS Scripts are another structured representation scheme introduced by Roger Schank (1977). They are used to represent sequences of commonly occurring events. They were originally developed to capture the meanings of stories or to "understand" natural language text. In that respect they are like a script for a play. A script is a predefined frame-like structure which contains expectations, inferences, and other knowledge that is relevant to a stereotypical situation. Scripts are constructed using basic primitive concepts and rules of formation somewhat like the conceptual graphs described in Section 7.2. Before proceeding with a description of the script, we describe the primitives and related rules used in building them. They are known as conceptual dependencies (not to be confused with conceptual graphs). Conceptual Dependencies Conceptual dependency (CD) theory is based on the use of a limited number of primitive concepts and rules of formation to represent any natural language statement. The theory states that different sentences which have the same meaning should have the same unique CD representation. Furthermore, representations for any sentence should be unambiguous as the speaker intends, even though it may have syntactic ambiguity, as in ''I saw the Golden Gate Bridge eying into San Francisco this afternoon." It is the contention that any concept, like dreaming. thinking, bellowing, or scheming can he described in terms of these primitives. In CD theory five different types of ontological (state of being) building blocks are distinguished. Each of these types, in turn, has several subtypes. The typesare made up of entities, actions, conceptual cases, conceptual dependencies, and conceptual tenses. ENTITIES Picture producers (PP) are actors or physical objects (including human memory) that perform different acts. Picture aiders (PA) are supporting properties or attributes of producers. ACTIONS Primitive actions (ACTs) as listed in Figure 7.10. Action aid