anese are determined they will realize many of their goals, namely. to produce systems that can converse in a natural language, understand speech and visual scenes, learn and refine their knowledge, make decisions, and exhibit other human traits. If they succeed, and many experts feel they will, their success as a leading economic power is assured. Following the Japanese, other leading countries of the world have announced plans for some form of Al program. The British initiated a plan called the Alvey Project with a respectable budget. Their goals are not as ambitious as the Japanese but are set to help the British keep abreast and remain in the race. The European Common Market countries have jointly initiated a separate cooperative plan named the ESPRIT program. The French too have their own plan. Other countries including Canada. the Soviet Union, Italy, Austria, and even the Irish Republic and Singapore have made some commitments in funded research and development. The United States, although well aware of the possible consequences, has made no formal plan. However, steps have been taken by some organizations to push forward in Al research. First, there was the formation of a consortium of private companies in 1983 to develop advanced technologies that apply Al techniques (like VLSI). The consortium is known as the Microelectronics and Computer Tech nology Corporation (MCC) and is headquartered in Austin, Texas. Second. the Department of Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) has increased its funding for research in Al. including development support in three significant programs: (I) development of an autonomous land vehicle (ALV) (a driverless military vehicle) (2) the development of a pilot's associate (an expert system which provides assistance to tighter pilots), and (3) the Strategic Computing Program (an Al based military supercomputer project). In addition, most of the larger high-tech companies such as IBM. DEC. AT&T. Hewlett Packard. Texas I