 Roger Schank s CD theory used a small set of conceptual actions. These conceptual actions could be combined in different way into to build conceptualizations that could capture real world events. In fact the dictionary built for words from the natural language contains such conceptualizations. The exact number of ACTs in the CD theory varied between eleven and fourteen. We present one such set, and illustrate how they can be used for knowledge representation. The CD ACTs are, 1. ATRANS, or Abstract Transfer The transfer of an abstract relationship such as possession, ownership or control. ATRANS would be instrumental in expressing concepts like give, take, buy, gift, receive, snatch, rob, and steal. 2. PTRANS, or Physical Transfer Transfer of physical location of an object. It would be used to model all movement words like go, visit, emigrate, climb, deliver furniture, send a letter, and walk. 3. PROPEL Or the application of a force to an object, regardless at ther the object is PTRANSed or not. Words that would need the P for their representation are push, pull, throw, kick, hit, punch, caress, and hammer. 4. MOVE Or the movement of a body part of an animal by that animal. Often an instrumental act for the PTRANS act or the PROPEL act. Animate actors can move body parts resulting in some other conceptual act. For example, He walked to the canteen is conceptually a PTRANS using MOVE (foot) as an instrumental act. 5. GRASP The grasping of an object by an actor. This would be used by verbs like grab, let go, and throw. Observe that the use of a termination time marker would signify ungrasping. 6. INGEST To take in, including words like eat, drink, smoke, gobble, swallow, sip and breathe. 7. EXPEL Includes expulsion from the body. Spitting, urinating, gargling, sweating, exhaling, and even crying may need the EXPEL act. 8. MTRANS Or Mental Transfer. The transfer of information between animals or within an animal. Thus words like saying, telling, narrating, emailing, r