an action and subse-
quentperceptisdoneintwostages. Thefirststagecalculates thebeliefstateaftertheaction,
justasforthesensorless agent: b (b DEL(a)) ADD(a)
where,asbefore,wehaveassumedabeliefstaterepresented asaconjunction ofliterals. The
second stage is a little trickier. Suppose that percept literals p ,...,p are received. One
1 k
might think that we simply need to add these into the belief state; in fact, we can also infer
422 Chapter 11. Planningand Actinginthe Real World
that the preconditions for sensing are satisfied. Now, if a percept p has exactly one percept
axiom, Percept(p,PRECOND:c), where c is a conjunction of literals, then those literals can
bethrownintothebeliefstatealongwithp. Ontheotherhand,ifphasmorethanonepercept
axiomwhosepreconditions mightholdaccordingtothepredictedbeliefstate b,thenwehave
to add in the disjunction of the preconditions. Obviously, this takes the belief state outside
1-CNF and brings up the same complications as conditional effects, with much the same
classesofsolutions.
Givenamechanism forcomputing exact orapproximate belief states, wecan generate
contingent plans with an extension of the AND OR forward search over belief states used
in Section 4.4. Actions with nondeterministic effects which are defined simply by using a
disjunction inthe EFFECT oftheactionschema can beaccommodated withminorchanges
tothebelief-stateupdatecalculationandnochangetothesearchalgorithm.2 Fortheheuristic
function, many of the methods suggested for sensorless planning are also applicable in the
partially observable, nondeterministic case.
11.3.3 Onlinereplanning
Imagine watching aspot-welding robot inacarplant. Therobot s fast, accurate motions are
repeated over and over again as each car passes down the line. Although technically im-
pressive, the robot probably does not seem at all intelligent because the motion is a fixed,
preprogrammed sequence; the robot obviously doesn t know what it s doing inany mean-
ingful sense. Now suppose that a poorly 