reviously encountered problems. Sec. 15.3 Nonpr Od UCti Ofl System Architectures Expert systems based on analogical architectures solve new problems like humans, by finding a similar problem solution that is known and applying the known if solution to the new problem, possibly with some modifications. For example, we know a method of proving that the product of two even integers is even, we can successfully prove that the product of two odd integers is odd through much the same proof steps. Only a slight modification will be required when collecting product terms in the result. Expert systems using analogical architectures will require a large knowledge base having numerous problem solutions and other previouslyencountered situations or episodes. Each such situation should be stored as a Unit in memory and be content-indexed for rapid retrieval. The inference mechanism must be able to extend known situations or solutions to fit the current problem and of his students verify that the extended solution is reasonable. The author and one has built a small toy analogical expert system in LISP to demonstrate many of the features needed for such systems (Patterson and Chu. 1988). Neural Network Architectures Neural networks are large networks of simple processing elements or nodes which process information dynamically in response to external inputs. The nodes are simplified models of neurons. The knowledge in a neural network is distributed throughout the network in the form of internode connections and weighted links which form the inputs to the nodes. The link weights serve to enhance or inhibit the input stimuli values which are then added together at the nodes. If the sum of all the inputs to a node exceeds some threshold value T, the node executes and produces an output which is passed on to other nodes or is used to produce some output response. In the simplest case, no output is produced if the total input is less than T. In more complex models, the output will depe