 capabilities, the clonal expansion yields, a more specific repertoire that can effectively tackle a specific invasion. The expansion also yields memory cells that aid in the rapid growth of specific antigen-recognizing /ymphokines, on a secondary invasion, exhibiting an autonomous reinforcement learning strategy. Thus apart from just recognizing and dealing with an antigenic attack the immune system also has the potential to learn and perform more effectively to further invasions in the future. The initial exposure to an antigen causes B-cell activation leading to secretion of antibodies with different affinities. Those B-cell clones that are capable of producing antibodies with higher affinities (ones that are more potent and effective in destroying the antigen) are stored aside as an immunological memory of the attack. These cells circulate through the body over the period of its lifetime. WLen the organism is infected again by the same or similar antigen, these cells provide a head start to the normal mode of attack. Since the antibodies secreted by them already have high affinities, the invasion is quickly curtailed. The reaction is thus far enhanced than the ptimary response to the antigen. The system is thus said to have learnt to counter the attack effectively on a secondary response to the antigen. Random mutation causes changes in the V-region. Such changes can lead to an increase in affinity of the antibody. Only those with such higher affinities form the memory cells. The effectiveness of any attack depends on the affinities of the antibodies to the antigen. Affinity could mean the primness with which the paratopes of the antibodies fit onto the epitopes on the antigen. Initially the paratopes have randomly shaped V-regions. Mutation may also give rise to non-functional receptors or receptors that recognize the self or cells that contain damaged binding sites. Such cells are efficiently eliminated or are programmed to die (apoptosis'). 24.9 IMMUNE NETWOR