ould have less to say about our minds, and even lesser about souls. Adapting this view, we still cannot escape the question of how could one reason or manipulate symbols meaningfully. Either we can manipulate them mechanically using some procedure, or we have to somehow bring meaning into the picture. If symbols are being manipulated meaningfully then who does the manipulation? One suggestion, mockingly put forward by its opponents, is that there is a humunculus, or a little man, who resides in our heads, reading our thoughts and creating new ones for us. Then of course, one would have to explain in turn how the humunculus works. A way out was suggested by David Hume (1711-1776), an admirer of Isaac Newton (1644-1727). Hume put forth the idea that just as the physical world operated according to the laws of nature, the mental world also operated according to its own laws, and did not need a manipulator. And just as we do not question why physical bodies obey the law of gravitation, we do not have to question why mental symbols will obey the laws that determine their manipulation. This does do away with the need for a manipulator, but Hume too could not answer the question of how the thought process could mean anything. Because meaning, as we now believe, can only be with respect to something, a real world, a domain in which the thinker operates. While the debate over what minds are and whether machines can have minds of their own raged on, the arrival of the digital computer heralded an age when everyone plunged into writing programs to do interesting things without bothering about whether the programs would be called intelligent or not. 1.2.2 Alin the Last Century We take up the action in 1950 when Alan Turing proposed the Imitation Game described in the next section, and Claude Shannon published a paper on chess playing programs. Soon afterwards, checkers playing programs appeared, the first one being written in 1951 in the University of Manchester by Christopher 