tems have been studied intensely, both analvtidally and through simulations (Lakshmivarahan. 1981). Learning automata systems are finite state adaptive systems which interact iteratively with a general environment. Through a probabilistic trial-and-error response process they learn to choose or adapt to a behavior which produces the best response. They are, essentially, a form of weak. inductive learners. In Figure 17.4. we see that the learning model for learning automata has been simplified to just two components, an automaton (learner) and an environment. The learning cycle begins with an input to the learning automata system from the environment. This input elicits one of a finite number of possible responses from the automaton. Ihe environment receives and evaluates the response and then provides some form of feedback to the automaton in return. This feedback is used by the automaton to alter its stimulus-response mapping structure to improve its behavior in a more favorable way. As a simple example, suppose a learning automata is being used to learn the best temperature control setting for your office each morning. It may select any one often temperature range settings at the beginning of each day (Figure 17.5). Without any prior knowledge of your temperature preferences, the automaton randomly selects a first setting using the probability vector corresponding to the temperature settings. Since the probability values are uniformly distributed, any one of the settings will be selected with equal likelihood. After the selected temperature has stabilized. the environment may respond with a simple good-ba l feedback response. If the response is good, the automata will modify its probability vector by rewarding the probability corresponding to the good setting with a positive increment and reducing all other probabilities proportionately to maintain the sum equal to I. If the response is bad, the automaton will penalize the selected setting by reducing the probabil