us, the total cost is given by tl O.8 Finding Match Differences Distortions occurring in representations are not the only reasons for partial matches. For example, in problem solving or analogical inference, differences are expected. In such cases the two structures are matched to isolate the differences in order that they may be reduced or transformed. Once again, partial matching techniques are appropriate. The problem is best illustrated with another example In a vision application (Eshera and Fu, 1984), an industrial part may be described using a graph structure where the set of nodes correspond to rectangular or cylindrical block subparts. The arcs in the graph correspond to positional relations between the subparts. Labels for rectangular block nodes contain length, width, and height. while labels for cylindrical block nodes give radius and height. The arc labels give location and distances between block nodes, where location can be above, to the right of. behind, inside, and so on. Figure 10.6 illustrates a segment of such a graph. In the figure the following abbreviations are used: R = rectangular block 1, = length of subpart C = cylindrical block = width of subpart J = joint h, = height of subpart T = to-the-right-of r = radius of subpart V above d, = distance between subparts Interpreting the graph. we see it is a unit consisting of subparts, made up of rectangular and cylindrical blocks with dimensions specified by attribute values. The cylindrical block n1 is to the right of n2 by d1 units and the two are connected by a joint. The blocks n1 and n, are above the rectangular block n3 by d, and d units respectively, and so on. 204 Matching Techniques Chap. 10 ,,, h J \ (V d2) l J V Figure 10.6 Segment of an attributed R /, v2, h) relational graph. Graphs such as this are called attributed relational graphs (ATRs). Such a graph C) is defined formally as a sextuple G = (N,B,A,G,.(;5) where N = ("1, -. fl} is a set of nodes. .4 = ian1 , ...., an} is an alphabe