about the set it represents. It does not, for example, tell how to determine whether a particular object is a member of the set or not. Knowledge Representation Issues 93 Co ee ed There are two ways to state a definition of a set and its elements. The first is to list the members. Such a specification is called an extensional definition. The second is to provide a rule that, when a particular object is evaluated, returns true or false depending on whether the object is in the set or not. Such a rule is called an intensional definition. For example, an extensional description of the set of our sun s planets on which people live is {Earth}. An intensional description is {x : sun-planet(x) /\ human-inhabited(x)} For simple sets, it may not matter, except possibly with respect to efficiency concerns, which representation is used. But the two kinds of representations can function differently in some cases. One way in which extensional and intensional representations differ is that they do not necessarily correspond one-to-one with each other. For example, the extensionally defined set {Earth } has many intensional definitions in addition to the one we just gave. Others include: {x : sun-planet{x) ? nth-farthest-fmm-sun(x, 3)} {x : sun-planet(x) ? nth-biggest(x, 5)} Thus, while it is trivial to determine whether two sets are identical if extensional descriptions are used, it may be very difficult to do so using intensional descriptions. Intensional representations have two important properties that extensional ones lack, however. The first is that they can be used to describe infinite sets and sets not all of whose elements are explicitly known. Thus we can describe intensionally such sets as prime numbers (of which there are infinitely many) or kings of England (even though we do not know who all of them are or even how many of them there have been). The second thing we can do with intensional descriptions is to allow them to depend on parameters that can change, such as