e word's possible function and other features, including semantic information. This information is then used in building a tree or other representation structure. The general parsing process is illustrated in Figure 12.5. Sec. 12.4 Basic Parsing Techniques 241 Input string Parsereaen tat ion structure Lexicon Figure 12.5 Parsing an input to create an output structure The Lexicon A lexicon is a dictionary of words (usually morphemes or root words together with their derivatives), where each word contains some syntactic, semantic, and possibly some pragmatic information. The information in the lexicon is needed to help determine the function and meanings of the words in a sentence. Each entry in a lexicon will contain a root word called the head. Different derivatives of the word, it any, will also be given, and the roles it can play in a sentence (e.g. its part of speech and Sense). A fragment of a simplified lexicon is illustrated in Figure 12 6 The abbreviations Is, 2s.....3p in Figure 12.6 stand for first person singular, second person singular,... , third person plural, respectively. Note that some words have more than one type such as can which is both a noun and a verb, and orange which is both an adjective and a noun. A lexicon may also be organized to contain separate entries for words with more than one function by giving them separate identities, can I and can2. Alternatively, the entries in a lexicon could be grouped and given by word category (by articles, nouns, pronouns, verbs, Word Type Features a Determiner {3s} be Verb rrans intransitive boy Noun 13S} can Noun VC rb T b ra . n 2 s s . , in I t s ra , n 1 s p it , iv 2 e p, 31,,1 carried Verb lorrn: past, past participle orange Adjective Noun {3s) the Determiner (Is. jp to Prcposuon we Pronoun Case, subjective yel Io Adjective FFiigguurree 12.6 Typical entries in a lexicon 177 -- Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 242 categories and so on). and all ssords contained within the lexicon listed within t