falling tails up. But when you do toss a coin, it either falls heads up or tails up, and there is no uncertainty about it any more. The second property states that the sum of probabilities over the sample space must be one, signifying that the space is exhaustive. This means that all possible events have been covered. In the coin tossing example, the coin will either land heads up or it will land tails up, and one of the two will certainly happen (we ignore the possibility of it standing on its side). These two events form the sample space. This clearly illustrates that probabilities are measures of belief of agents for facts about which there is some uncertainty. When this uncertainty is removed, the true facts emerge and probability has no more role to play. Given that we are told Chirpy is a bird, we may not know with certainty whether it can fly or not, but we bring our background knowledge to fore and assign a probability to the proposition being true. Later, more information may reveal the actual truth value of the statement. Agents act in the real world, based on their beliefs. Consider the stark example of day trading in the stock markets. One agent sells a stock and the other agent buys it. The seller has a belief that the stock price will not change or will go down. The buyer, on the other hand, believes that the price will go up. At the end of the day only one of them will be proved correct. A bridge player may try a finesse believing that the probability of success, depending upon which opponent has a given card, is fifty percent. But when the play is made, the layout becomes known. One can also think of the probabilities as possible values for a random variable. In our component failing example, let us say the random variable is called FailTimeC and can take values from the different time intervals defined above. Then, the probabilities are described by a set of statements of the form, P(FailTimeC t)) p; The ordered set of values p; ... py then defines 