tion of who committed the murder given at least one possible configuration of the evidence. (a} Use MYCIN-style rutes and CF s. Example rules might include: If (1) relative (x,y), and {2) on speaking terms (x,y), then there is suggestive evidence (0.7) that will-lie-for (x,y) (b) Use Bayesian networks. Represent as nodes such propositions as brotherin-law-lied, Cabot-atski-meet, and so forth. (c) Use Dempster-Shafer theory. Examples of/w s might be: m, = {Abbott, Babbitt} (0.8) {beneficiaries in will] Oo (0.2) m, = {Abbott, Cabot} (0.7) {in line for his job} (0.3) (d) Use fuzzy logic. For example, you might want to define such fuzzy sets as honest people or greedy people and describe Abbott, Babbitt, and Cabot s memberships in those sets. (e) What kinds of information arc easiest (and hardest) to represent in each of these frameworks? CHAPTER 9 MNES A e R ATLA RAS TR EO Re AB EN WEAK SLOT-AND-FILLER STRUCTURES Speech is the representation of the mind, and writing is the representation of speech Aristotle (384 BC - 322 BC), Greek philosopher In this chapter, we continue the discussion we began in Chapter 4 of slot-and-filler structures. Recall that we originally introduced them as a device to support property inheritance along isa and instance links, This is an important aspect of these structures. Monotonic inheritance can be performed substantially more efficiently with such structures than with pure logic, and nonmonotonic inheritance is easily supported. The reason that inheritance is easy is that the knowledge in slot-and-filler systems is structured as a set of entities and their attributes. This structure turns out to be a useful one for other reasons besides the support of inheritance, though, including: e It indexes assertions by the entities they describe. More formally, it indexes binary predicates [such as team|{ Three-Finger-Brown, Chicago-Cubs) by their first argument. As a result, retrieving the value for an attribute of an entity is fast. It makes it 