s asbackground knowledge.
19.5.3 Inductive learningwithinverse deduction
The second major approach to ILP involves inverting the normal deductive proof process.
INVERSE Inverse resolution is based on the observation that if the example Classifications follow
RESOLUTION
from Background Hypothesis Descriptions,thenonemustbeabletoprovethisfactby
resolution (becauseresolutioniscomplete). Ifwecan run theproofbackward, thenwecan
find a Hypothesis such that the proof goes through. The key, then, is to find away to invert
theresolution process.
Wewillshowabackwardproofprocessforinverseresolution thatconsistsofindividual
backward steps. Recall that an ordinary resolution step takes two clauses C and C and
1 2
resolves them to produce the resolvent C. An inverse resolution step takes a resolvent C
and produces two clauses C and C , such that C is the result of resolving C and C .
1 2 1 2
Alternatively, it may take a resolvent C and clause C and produce a clause C such that C
1 2
istheresultofresolving C and C .
1 2
The early steps in an inverse resolution process are shown in Figure 19.13, where we
focus on the positive example Grandparent(George,Anne). Theprocess begins at the end
of the proof (shown at the bottom of the figure). We take the resolvent C to be empty
clause(i.e. acontradiction) and C tobe Grandparent(George,Anne),whichisthenega-
2
tion of the goal example. The first inverse step takes C and C and generates the clause
2
Grandparent(George,Anne) for C . The next step takes this clause as C and the clause
1
Parent(Elizabeth,Anne)as C ,andgenerates theclause
2 Parent(Elizabeth,y) Grandparent(George,y)
as C . Thefinalstep treats this clause as the resolvent. With Parent(George,Elizabeth)as
1
C ,onepossible clause C isthehypothesis
2 1
Parent(x,z) Parent(z,y) Grandparent(x,y).
Nowwehavearesolutionproofthatthehypothesis,descriptions,andbackgroundknowledge
entailtheclassification Grandparent(George,Anne).
Clearly, inverse resolution involves a search. Each inverse res