is U 1 12.
O,E
Nowweknow that thetrue utility ofthe original gameliesbetween 1 12 and 1 12, that
is, it is exactly 1 12! (The moral is that it is better to be O than E if you are playing this
game.) Furthermore, thetrueutility isattained bythemixedstrategy 7 12:one;5 12:two ,
MAXIMIN whichshouldbeplayedbybothplayers. Thisstrategyiscalledthemaximinequilibriumof
EQUILIBRIUM
the game, and is a Nash equilibrium. Note that each component strategy in an equilibrium
mixed strategy has the same expected utility. In this case, both one and two have the same
expectedutility, 1 12,asthemixedstrategyitself.
Our result for two-finger Morra is an example of the general result by von Neumann:
everytwo-playerzero-sumgamehasamaximinequilibriumwhenyouallowmixedstrategies.
Furthermore, every Nash equilibrium in a zero-sum game is a maximin for both players. A
player who adopts the maximin strategy has two guarantees: First, no other strategy can do
betteragainst anopponent whoplayswell(although someotherstrategies mightbebetterat
exploiting an opponent who makes irrational mistakes). Second, the player continues to do
justaswellevenifthestrategyisrevealedtotheopponent.
The general algorithm for finding maximin equilibria in zero-sum games is somewhat
moreinvolvedthan Figures17.12(e)and(f)mightsuggest. Whentherearenpossibleactions,
a mixed strategy is a point in n-dimensional space and the lines become hyperplanes. It s
also possible for some pure strategies for the second player to be dominated by others, so
that they are not optimal against any strategy for the first player. After removing all such
strategies (which might have to be done repeatedly), the optimal choice at the root is the
7 It is a coincidence that these equations are the same as those for p; the coincidence arises because
UE(one,two) UE(two,one) 3.Thisalsoexplainswhytheoptimalstrategyisthesameforbothplayers.
Section17.5. Decisionswith Multiple Agents: Game Theory 673
highest (or lowest) intersection point of the rema