ng to some rules. People outside the room slide in some slips with Chinese symbols, and Searle passes back some Chinese symbols in return. Does this mean that he understands Chinese? As one can see, this is a kind of Turing Test, in which success is determined by meaningful conversation. Searle does not address the issue of what kind of a program or rules would enable him to converse meaningfully with his interlocutors, and perhaps therein lies the question. 1.3.2 Intelligent Decisions Let us attempt to look at intelligence from a more fundamental perspective. Intelligence is obviously about making the right choices and doing the right thing. The perceptive reader would have observed by now that we are on slippery ground again here; defining intelligence in terms of equally vague notions. But let us nevertheless make an attempt. Doing the right thing would refer to some goals that the agent has. One might say that the fundamental goal of life is life itself. Consequently, the goal of living things is to live; to maintain the body by eating. From this point onwards, the boundedness of resources comes into the picture. Bodies have finite lifespans, and life resorts to procreation. The individual may perish, but the species must survive. Food is a finite resource, and apart from having to compete for it, there is also the danger of ending up as a meal for someone. Competition leads to evolution, and mixing up of genes via mating becomes an effective means of improvement. The right thing, therefore, for an individual of a species, is to do whatever propagates the species. The homo sapiens (us humans, that is) developed cognitive abilities and have won the war of species promulgation. We have organized ourselves into heterogeneous societies that benefit from the multitude of diverse efforts. In that sense, humans have done the right thing. An agent can do the right thing only when the agent knows the situation. Intelligence is perhaps most associated with the faculty of 