gure indicate substructures whose further decomposition is not important.) As these examples show, the components of an English sentence typically interact more heavily with each other than do the i components of artificial languages, such as programming languages, that have been designed, among other | things, to facilitate processing by computer. s Ss ae ae NP VP NP VP | ~~, | NP John | [~~ van John yvoo OM saw DET " Pp with a telescope saw DET N PP PP the boy in the park the boy inthe park with a dog John saw the boy in the park with a telescope. John saw the boy in the park with a dog. ae NP v P | Vv NP John | / ~ saw an N PP the boy in the park with a statue John saw the boy in the park with a statue. Fig. 14.5 More interaction among Components Understanding 277 Nonlocality can be a problem at all levels of an understanding process. The cat scares all the birds away. In the boy in the park example, the problem is in how to group phrases in Share together. But in perceptual understanding tasks, this same problem may A cat's cares are few. make it difficult even to decide on what the basic constituents are. Figure 14.6 shows a simplified example from speech understanding. Assuming that the sounds shown in the figure have been identified, the problem is Fig. 14.6 Local Ambiguity in a Speech Problem to group them into words. But the correct grouping cannot be determined without looking at the larger context in which the sounds occurred. Either of the groupings shown is possible, as can be seen from the two sentences in the figure. Figure 14.7 shows an actual speech wavetorm, in which the lack of local clues, even for segmenting into individual sounds, can be seen. u's t x Fa Oe UTTERACE 24393 4 tee 1 1 q ' 1 t 1 1 1 1 72 ae a4 cree ei [3 18 escu T ELON 1 det reer urete ae 1H i Fy Gent @@e ta GAT tt * te Fig. 14.7 A Speech Waveform In image-understanding problems as well, a similar problem involving local indeterminacy arises. Consider the situation shown in Fig. 14