 tule taken from (Jackson, 1986). DISTRIBUTE-MB-DEVICES-3 IF the mest current active ccntext is distributing massbus devices there is a single port disk drive that has not been assigned toa massbus there is no unassigned dual port disk drives the number of cevices that each massbus shoulc support is known there is a massbus that has been assigned at least one disk drive and that should support additional cisk drives the type of cable needed to connect the disk drive to the previcas device on the disk drive is known THEN assign the disk ceive to the massbus Figure 6.17 An English translation of an XCON rule (Jackson, 1986). The XCON rules were written grouped into rule sets catering to distinct subtasks in the configuration tasks, by specifically stating the context (see first condition in the above rule) to demarcate the different sets of rules. This makes the task of the underlying processing algorithm easier, because it needs to only look at a subset of rules at each stage. Further, XCON breaks up the subtasks themselves into smaller subtasks, resulting in a task hierarchy of the kind depicted in Figure 6.2. Thus, we see that with the introduction of contexts (or subgoals) as data elements, one can bring in a backward reasoning flavour even in a forward-chaining system. The high-level task break up in XCON is as follows (Jackson, 1986). 1. Check the order, inserting any omissions and correcting any mistakes. 2. Configure the CPU, arranging components in the CPU and the CPU expansion cabinets. 3. Configure the unibus modules, putting boxes into expansion cabinets and then putting the modules into the boxes. 4. Configure the panelling, assigning panels to cabinets and associating panels with unibus modules and the devices they serve. 5. Generate a floor plan, grouping components that must be closer together and then laying the devices out in the right order. 6. Do the cabling, specifying what cables are to be used to connect devices and then determining the distance