2 has twoparses: one where the prepositional phrase in
2,2 modifiesthenounandonewhereitmodifiestheverb. Thesyntacticambiguityleadstoa
SEMANTIC semanticambiguity,becauseoneparsemeansthatthewumpusisin2,2andtheothermeans
AMBIGUITY
thatastenchisin2,2. Inthiscase,gettingthewronginterpretation couldbeadeadlymistake
fortheagent.
Finally, there can be ambiguity between literal and figurative meanings. Figures of
speech are important in poetry, but are surprisingly common in everyday speech as well. A
metonymy is a figure of speech in which one object is used to stand for another. When
METONYMY
we hear Chrysler announced a new model, we do not interpret it as saying that compa-
nies can talk; rather we understand that a spokesperson representing the company made the
announcement. Metonymyiscommonandisofteninterpretedunconsciouslybyhumanhear-
ers. Unfortunately, our grammar as it is written is not so facile. To handle the semantics of
metonymyproperly,weneedtointroduceawholenewlevelofambiguity. Wedothisbypro-
vidingtwoobjectsforthesemanticinterpretation ofeveryphraseinthesentence: oneforthe
object that the phrase literally refers to (Chrysler) and one for the metonymic reference (the
spokesperson). We then have to say that there is a relation between the two. In our current
grammar, Chryslerannounced getsinterpreted as
x Chrysler e Announce(x) After(Now,Extent(e)).
Weneedtochange thatto
x Chrysler e Announce(m) After(Now,Extent(e)) Metonymy(m,x).
906 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
This says that there is one entity x that is equal to Chrysler, and another entity m that did
theannouncing, andthatthetwoareinametonymyrelation. Thenextstep istodefinewhat
kinds of metonymy relations can occur. The simplest case is when there is no metonymy at
all theliteralobject xandthemetonymicobjectmareidentical: m,x (m x) Metonymy(m,x).
Forthe Chrysler example, a reasonable generalization is that an organization can be used to
standforaspokesperson ofthatorganization: m,x x Orga