83). Selective generalization rules build descriptions using only the descriptors (attributes and relations) that appear in the instances, whereas constructive generalization rules do not. These concepts are described further below. Generalization Rules Since specialization rules are essentially the opposite of rules for generalization, to specialize a description, one could change variables to constants, add a conjunct or remove a disjunct from a description, and so forth. Of course, there are other means of specialization such as taking exceptions in descriptions (a fish is anything that swims in water but does not breathe air as do dolphins). Such methods will be introduced as needed. These methods are useful tools for constructing knowledge structures. They give us methods with which to formulate and express inductive hypotheses. Unfortunately, they do not give us much guidance on how to select hypotheses efficiently. For this, we need methods which more directly limit the number of hypotheses which must be considered. Selective Generalization Changing Constants to Variables. An example of this rule was given in Section 18.1. Given instances of a the constants a1 are changed to description or predicate P(al). P(a2).....P(a) a variable which may be any value in the given domain, that is. Yx P(x). Sec. 18.4 Generalization and Specialization 317 Droppisg Condition. Dropping one or more conditions in a description has the effect of expanding or increasing the size of the set. For example, the set of all small red spheres is less general than the set of small spheres. Another way of stating this rule when the conjunctive description is given is that a generalization results when one or more of the conjuncts is dropped. Adding an Alternative. This is similar to the dropping condition rule. Adding a disjunctive term generalizes the resulting description by adding an alternative to the possible objects. For example, transforming red sphere to (red sphere) V (green pyram