k, must be quite certain of what is going
on. Controltheorists callthisan open-loopsystem,because ignoringthepercepts breaksthe
OPEN-LOOP
loopbetweenagentandenvironment.
We first describe the process of problem formulation, and then devote the bulk of the
chapter to various algorithms for the SEARCH function. We do not discuss the workings of
the UPDATE-STATE and FORMULATE-GOAL functions furtherinthischapter.
3.1.1 Well-defined problems and solutions
Aproblemcanbedefinedformallybyfivecomponents:
PROBLEM The initial state that the agent starts in. For example, the initial state for our agent in
INITIALSTATE
Romaniamightbedescribed as In(Arad).
Section3.1. Problem-Solving Agents 67
function SIMPLE-PROBLEM-SOLVING-AGENT(percept)returnsanaction
persistent: seq,anactionsequence,initiallyempty
state,somedescriptionofthecurrentworldstate
goal,agoal,initiallynull
problem,aproblemformulation
state UPDATE-STATE(state,percept)
ifseq isemptythen
goal FORMULATE-GOAL(state)
problem FORMULATE-PROBLEM(state,goal)
seq SEARCH(problem)
ifseq failure thenreturnanullaction
action FIRST(seq)
seq REST(seq)
returnaction
Figure 3.1 A simple problem-solving agent. It first formulates a goal and a problem,
searchesforasequenceofactionsthatwouldsolvetheproblem,andthenexecutestheactions
oneatatime. Whenthisiscomplete,itformulatesanothergoalandstartsover. A description of the possible actions available to the agent. Given a particular state s,
ACTIONS
ACTIONS(s) returns the set of actions that can be executed in s. We say that each of
these actions is applicable in s. Forexample, from the state In(Arad), the applicable
APPLICABLE
actionsare Go(Sibiu),Go(Timisoara),Go(Zerind) . A description of what each action does; the formal name for this is the transition
TRANSITIONMODEL
model, specified by a function RESULT(s,a) that returns the state that results from
doingactionainstates. Wealsousethetermsuccessortorefertoanystatereachable
SUCCESSOR
fromagivenstatebyasingleaction.2 Forexample,wehave
RESULT