alsity of such statements. 3. Available inference methods are known to be inefficient. 4. There is no way to produce new knowledge about the world. It is only possible to add what is derivable from the axioms and theorems in the knowledge base. In other words, strict classical logic formalisms do not provide realistic representations of the world in which we live. On the contrary, intelligent beings are continuously required to make decisions under a veil of uncertainty. Uncertainty can arise from a variety of sources. For one thing, the information 80 Sec. Li Introduction a., we have available may be incomplete or highly volatile. Important facts and details which have a bearing on the problems at hand may be missing or may change rapidly'. In addition, many of the "facts' available may be imprecise, vague, or fuzzy. indeed, some of the available information may be contradictory or even unbelievat.'l C. However, despite these shortcomings, we humans miraculously deal with uncer Llinties on a daily basis and usually arrive at reasonable solutions. If it were otherwise, we would not be able to cope with the continually changing situations of our world. In this and the, following chapter, we shall discuss methods with which to accurately represe,.'t and deal with different forms of inconsistency, uncertainty, possibility, and beli L'fs. In other words, we shall be interested in representations and inference methods related to what is known as commonsense reasoning. 5.1 INTRODUCTION - Consider the following real-lift' situation. Timothy enjoys shopping in the mall only u Een the stores are not crov 'dod. He has agreed to accompany Sue there on the following Friday evening since 'his is normally a time when few people shop. Before the given date, several of tht, larger stores announce a one-time, special sale starting on that Friday evening. ,mothy, fearing large crowds, now retracts the offer to accompany Sue, promising to go on some future date. On the Thursday before