 the variable with a pair qmag, qdir where, qmag L, if X is on the landmark Z; (L, L,,,) if X1s between L, and L,,, and, qdir inc if the value of Y increasing, that is 4 ,, is positive std if the value of X steady, that is ,.Y is zero dec if the value of X decreasing, that is 4X is negative The initial state of a ball being thrown up in Figure 17.2 would be X-pos (Left-wall, Right-wall), inc Y-pos (Floor, Roof), inc X-velocity! (0, 0), std Y-velocity (0, ), dec X-acceleration 0, std Y-acceleration , std QSIM represents relations between variable using constraints. Let X(t), Y(t) and Z(t) be the values of variables X, Y and Z varying over time t. The variation of variables is assumed to be reasonable, that is continuous, with continuous derivatives, and with only a finite number critical points in any bounded interval (Kuipers, 1986). The following relations are defined. ADD(X,Y,Z) holds over the interval a,6 iff X(t) Y(t) Z(t) for every t eA HULTOX Y,Z) holds over the interval a,b iff X(t)Y(t) Z(t) for every t Senter holds over the interval a,b iff X(t) Y(t) for every t ee ERIVCY) holds over the interval a,b iff 4 gX(t) Y(t) for every t consranes holds over the interval a,b iff 9 4,X(t) 0 for every t a, The relation X(t) Y(t) Z(t) would be represented by Z(t) Y(f) X(t), and represented as ADD(Z, Y,X). The value of a variable may be a function of the value of another variable. QS M allows for qualitative functional relations M and M which say that one variable monotonically increases or decreases with the other. This relation can be expressed as a predicate, M (X,Y) holds over the interval a,b iff X(t) H(Y(t)) for every t a,b , where H is a function over the domain Y( a,b ) and range X( a,b ) and H' (x) 0 for x in the interior of its domain. M is defined in an analogous manner, with H '(x) 0. Observe that H stands for a family of functions that are monotonic over the given domain and range. If at a distinguished time point the different variables related by a particu