servations
of the body and the objects nearby to the goals and intentions of the moving people. One
source ofdifficulty isthat welack asimple vocabulary ofhuman behavior. Behavior isalot
962 Chapter 24. Perception
like color, in that people tend to think they know a lot of behavior names but can t produce
longlistsofsuchwordsondemand. Thereisquitealotofevidencethatbehaviorscombine you can, for example, drink a milkshake while visiting an ATM but we don t yet know
what the pieces are, how the composition works, or how many composites there might be.
Asecond source ofdifficulty isthatwedon t know whatfeatures expose whatishappening.
Forexample,knowingsomeoneisclosetoan AT Mmaybeenoughtotellthatthey revisiting
the ATM.Athirddifficultyisthattheusualreasoningabouttherelationshipbetweentraining
and test data is untrustworthy. For example, we cannot argue that a pedestrian detector is
safesimply because itperforms wellonalarge dataset, because thatdatasetmaywellomit
important, butrare,phenomena (forexample, people mounting bicycles). Wewouldn t want
ourautomateddrivertorunoverapedestrian whohappened to dosomething unusual.
24.6.1 Wordsandpictures
Many Web sites offer collections of images for viewing. How can we find the images we
want? Let ssuppose theuserenters atextquery, suchas bicycle race. Someoftheimages
willhavekeywordsorcaptionsattached, orwillcomefrom Webpagesthatcontain textnear
the image. Forthese, image retrieval can be like text retrieval: ignore the images and match
theimage stextagainstthequery(see Section22.3onpage867).
However, keywords are usually incomplete. Forexample, a picture of a cat playing in
thestreetmightbetaggedwithwordslike cat and street, butitiseasytoforgettomention
the garbagecan orthe fishbones. Thusaninterestingtaskistoannotateanimage(which
mayalready haveafewkeywords)withadditional appropriate keywords.
In the most straightforward version of this task, we have a set of correctly tagged ex-
ample images, and we wish to tag some test imag