f Prolog actually do allow this.) Show that such an
inference enginewillallowtheconclusion y P(q,q)tobeinferred fromthepremise x y P(x,y).
362 Chapter 9. Inference in First-Order Logic
c. Suppose that a procedure that converts first-order logic to clausal form incorrectly
Skolemizes x y P(x,y) to P(x,Sk0) that is, it replaces y by a Skolem con-
stant rather than by a Skolem function of x. Show that an inference engine that uses
such a procedure will likewise allow q P(q,q) to be inferred from the premise x y P(x,y).
d. A common error among students is to suppose that, in unification, one is allowed to
substituteatermfora Skolemconstantinsteadofforavariable. Forinstance, theywill
saythattheformulas P(Sk1)and P(A)canbeunifiedunderthesubstitution Sk1 A .
Giveanexamplewherethisleadstoaninvalidinference.
9.8 Explainhowtowriteanygiven3-SA Tproblemofarbitrarysizeusingasinglefirst-order
definiteclauseandnomorethan30ground facts.
9.9 Supposeyouaregiventhefollowingaxioms:
1. 0 3.
2. 7 9.
3. x x x.
4. x x x 0.
5. x x 0 x.
6. x,y x y y x.
7. w,x,y,z w y x z w x y z.
8. x,y,z x y y z x z
a. Giveabackward-chaining proof ofthesentence 7 3 9. (Besure, ofcourse, touse
only the axioms given here, not anything else you may know about arithmetic.) Show
onlythestepsthatleadstosuccess, nottheirrelevant steps.
b. Givea forward-chaining proof of the sentence 7 3 9. Again, show only the steps
thatleadtosuccess.
9.10 A popular children s riddle is Brothers and sisters have I none, but that man s father
is myfather s son. Use the rules ofthe family domain (Section 8.3.2on page 301) toshow
whothatmanis. Youmayapplyanyoftheinferencemethodsdescribedinthischapter. Why
doyouthinkthatthisriddleisdifficult?
9.11 Suppose weput into alogical knowledge base a segment of the U.S.census data list-
ing the age, city of residence, date of birth, and mother of every person, using social se-
curity numbers as identifying constants for each person. Thus, George s age is given by
Age(443-65-1282,56). Which oft