led later). However, we assume the players always remember all their
ownprevious actions;thisassumption iscalled perfectrecall.
The key idea of extensive form that sets it apart from the game trees of Chapter 5 is
the representation of partial observability. We saw in Section 5.6 that a player in a partially
observable game such as Kriegspiel can create a game tree over the space of belief states.
With that tree, wesaw that in somecases aplayer can findasequence of moves (astrategy)
thatleadstoaforcedcheckmateregardlessofwhatactualstatewestartedin,andregardlessof
whatstrategytheopponentuses. However,thetechniquesof Chapter5couldnottellaplayer
what to do when there is no guaranteed checkmate. If the player s best strategy depends
on the opponent s strategy and vice versa, then minimax (or alpha beta) by itself cannot
find a solution. The extensive form does allow us to find solutions because it represents the
belief states (game theorists call them information sets) of all players at once. From that
INFORMATIONSETS
representation wecanfindequilibrium solutions, justaswe didwithnormal-form games.
Asasimple example ofasequential game, place twoagents inthe4 3world of Fig-
ure17.1andhavethemmovesimultaneously untiloneagentreachesanexitsquare,andgets
the payoff for that square. If we specify that no movement occurs when the two agents try
to move into the same square simultaneously (a common problem at many traffic intersec-
tions), then certain pure strategies can get stuck forever. Thus, agents need a mixedstrategy
toperform wellinthisgame: randomly choosebetweenmoving aheadandstaying put. This
isexactlywhatisdonetoresolvepacketcollisions in Ethernetnetworks.
Next we ll consider a very simple variant of poker. The deck has only four cards, two
aces and two kings. One card is dealt to each player. The first player then has the option
to raise the stakes of the game from 1 point to 2, or to check. If player 1 checks, the game
is over. If he raises, then player 2 has the 