 19.3. Plot the entropy as a function of p for the case n = 2; that is. plot H as p ranges from 0 to 1. 19.4. Describe how LEX generalizes from tan. cos. In, and log to transc (transcendental). 19.5. Use the concepts related to version space bounding to illustrate how a system can learn the concept of a large circle from both positive and negative examples of objects described by the attributes shape (circle, square, triangle), size (small, medium, large), and color (red, blue, green). 19.6. What is the difference between a standard disjunction and an internal disjunction' 19.7. What is the significance of a cover, and how does it relate to a concept? Chap. 19 Exercises 415 19.8. What steps. if any. are taken by INDUCE to avoid overgenerali2atjon? 19.9. Compare the methods of induction used by 1D3. LEX and INDUCE. Which of the methods is most efficient? Which is most robust Which has greatest scope; that is, which is most domain independent' 19.10. Compare Winston's Arch learning system with the System developed by Iba (see Chapter 18). Which is most versatile? 19.11. What is the inductive leap used in inductive learning? Why is it potentially dangerous, but still useful" At what point can it be taken? 2O Analog/cal and Explanation-Based Learning In this last chaptcr on autonomous acquisition, we investigate two of the most promising approaches to artificial learning, analogical and explanation-based learning. These approaches are both poten Liafly powerful forms of learning, yet to date, they have received less attention than other. lods. We expect this will change becauso of the great promise they both ofcr. 20.1 INTRODUCTION Unlike inductive or similay-based learning which based on the observance of a number of training exples, analogica! and exr nation-based learning (EVi L) can he accomplished witt only a single example. in a ilogical learnin'. one example in the form of a known solution or a past experienc is often sufficit.t knowlelge for learning a new sob o