 very happy. Did he win his badminton match? Malala has high fever and shivering. Has she got malaria? Even though we cannot assign Boolean truth values to such statements, we would often like to make some decisions that depend upon the truth values of these statements, and in the absence of definitive truth values, we have to work with some kinds of estimates. The way to deal with this is to resort to maintaining degrees of belief, represented by numerical values. One way of doing this is by assigning a proposition a probability of being true. For example, if one hears of a bird named Chirpy then one might say that the probability that Chirpy can fly is (say) 0.8. The actual value for this probability may differ from person to person, based on their individual subjective experiences, and the given context. For example, a person who has never had experiences of being lied to by anyone may assign a high value to the probability of a stranger being honest. Some other may have a conditional belief that the students from a particular school are honest, or that people in a particular locality are prone to tell lies. Such values are known as subjective probabilities. They are also known as Bayesian probabilities that encode the degree of belief an agent has in the statement. This is opposed to the frequentist view in which the probability values are arrived at by collecting statistical samples. Consider the task of diagnosis discussed earlier. We had observed in Section 17.3.3 that knowledge of the probabilities of components failing could help decide where to take the next measurement. Let us say we want to know the probability of a particular component C failing. Let us also make an assumption that the probabilities will depend on time. Very often, the older a component, the more likely it is to fail. To simplify matters, let us deal with time in intervals and assign a probability value of failure during each of these time intervals. Let us also make the (not so reasona