 Given that one has fever, one may want to find out whether one has malaria or some other affliction. We will explore such connections in the section on Abductive Reasoning. Often actions in the real world do not have deterministic effects. You may throw the basketball towards the basket but, unless you are Magic Johnson, there is a chance that it may not do the intended. We will look at planning with such stochastic actions later in the chapter. Very often, the information we have about the world is not exact. This is especially true of numeric data. Consider a pan on the stove containing water. How does one describe the temperature of the water? The simplest way to do so is to specify the temperature as a numerical quantity. That is what a scientist would do if she were doing an experiment. All of us, on the other hand, reason about hot water in more qualitative ways. Using a predicate in logic, one can assert that the water is hot, or it is not. The semantics of classical logic dictates that we think of the water in the pan as an object, and place it either in the set of objects that are hot, or outside it. However, such clear cut demarcation into crisp sets is not always meaningful. How would one decide which set an object belongs to? Is it based on a threshold, say 70 Celsius? Then what about 69.9 Celsius? Some techniques that have evolved to avoid crisp division of objects with continuously changing properties are the use of Fuzzy Sets and Rough Sets (see also Chapter 13). Fuzzy sets were devised to allow us to use linguistic terms like hot, tall, heavy, etc. to refer to such properties. The difference is in the semantics, which does not map to crisp sets. Rather, the sets themselves are defined with varying degrees of membership. Water at 95 Celsius belongs more to the set of hot objects, than water at 70 Celsius. Rough sets introduced a notion of modality into memberships. Thus, one can distinguish objects that definitely belong to a set from ones that may b