rship serves as a basis for nonmonotonic inheritance. Typically, these are sets in which membership is not highly ephemeral. Instead, membership is based on some fundamental structural or functional properties. To see the difference, consider the following sets: Weak Slot-and-Filler Structures 197 e People People who are major league baseball players People who are on my plane to New York The first two sets can be advantageously represented as classes, with which a substantial number of inheritable attributes can be associated. The last, though, is different. The only properties that all the elements of that set probably share are the definition of the set itself and some other properties that follow from the definition (e.g., they are being transported from one place to another). A simple set, with some associated assertions, is adequate to represent these facts; nonmonotonic inheritance is not necessary. 9.2.2 Other Ways of Relating Classes to Each Other We have talked up to this point about two ways in which classes (sets) can be related to each other. Class, can be a subset of Class . Or, if Class, is a metaclass, then Class, can be an instance of Class . But there are other ways that classes can be related to each other, corresponding to ways that sets of objects in the world can be related. One such relationship is mutually-disjoint-with, which relates a class to one or more other classes that are guaranteed to have no elements in common with it. Another important relationship is is-covered-by which relates a class to a set of subclasses, the union of which is equal to it. If a class is-covered-by a set S of mutually disjoint classes, then S is called a@ partition of the class. For examples of these relationships, consider the classes shown in Fig. 9.8, which represent two orthogonal ways of decomposing the class of major league baseball players. Everyone is-either a pitcher, a catcher, or a fielder (and no one is more than one of these), In addition, everyone