take a look at it, we need to comprehend the concept of an agent. Of Agents - Their Definition and Characteristics In Section 16.3 we had opened up the term agent whose definition was described as vague. Several researchers have provided definitions based on the work carried out by them. Discussing each of them would be like opening the Pandora s box (much like the definitions of intelligence and AI!). Russel and Norvig has : an agent to be something, that is capable of perceiving the environment which it is ia, using seasors and acting upon this environment through effectors A robot could rate high a> an example of an agent. It can sense the environment using sensors and then act accordingly. Naturally it changes the state of the environment after the act (since its position, for instance, will have changed, its battery power drained by a fraction due to the act, after the elapse of time). lt may look as if this definition allows a printer driver or for that matter a mere calculatcr program to be classified as an agent. These programs can be visualized to be sensing (perceiving) inputs from a user within its environment, acting (processing the inputs) and effecting the environment {either by displaying or printing the results). At a very low level such programs too could be categorized as agents but we do not wish to open a debate on this. The definitions put forth by many should be always examined from the standpoint of a few already propounded characteristics agents should possess. Not all agents possess all these characteristics. However more the number of these characteristics it possesses, more is it an agent. Table 25.3 lists some of the major characteristics of an agent. Table 25.3 Typical Characteristics of an Agent Characteristic What it means Reactivity Resporids to changes in the environment. Autonomy Controls its own actions. Goal-orientation Not just reactive; its actions are oriented to achieving an objective which defines the reason why it exists. z 