ningoccurs.
There are a number of good introductory texts on first-order logic, including some by
leading figures in the history of logic: Alfred Tarski (1941), Alonzo Church (1956), and
W.V.Quine(1982) (whichisoneofthemostreadable). Enderton (1972)givesamoremath-
ematically oriented perspective. A highly formal treatment of first-order logic, along with
many more advanced topics in logic, is provided by Bell and Machover (1977). Manna and
Waldinger (1985) give a readable introduction to logic from a computer science perspec-
tive, as do Huth and Ryan (2004), who concentrate on program verification. Barwise and
Etchemendy(2002)takeanapproachsimilartotheoneusedhere. Smullyan(1995)presents
results concisely, using the tableau format. Gallier (1986) provides an extremely rigorous
mathematical exposition of first-order logic, along witha great deal ofmaterial on its use in
automatedreasoning. Logical Foundationsof Artificial Intelligence (Geneserethand Nilsson,
1987)isbothasolid introduction tologic andthefirstsystematic treatment oflogical agents
with percepts and actions, and there are two good handbooks: van Bentham and ter Meulen
(1997) and Robinson and Voronkov (2001). Thejournal ofrecord forthefieldofpuremath-
ematical logic is the Journal of Symbolic Logic, whereas the Journal of Applied Logic deals
withconcerns closertothoseofartificialintelligence.
Exercises 315
EXERCISES
8.1 Alogicalknowledgebaserepresents theworldusingasetofsentenceswithnoexplicit
structure. An analogical representation, ontheotherhand, hasphysical structure that corre-
spondsdirectlytothestructureofthethingrepresented. Consideraroadmapofyourcountry
asananalogicalrepresentation offactsaboutthecountry itrepresentsfactswithamaplan-
guage. Thetwo-dimensionalstructureofthemapcorrespondstothetwo-dimensionalsurface
ofthearea.
a. Givefiveexamplesofsymbolsinthemaplanguage.
b. An explicit sentence is a sentence that the creator of the representation actually writes
down. An implicit sentence is a sent