cts of this action are far down beyond the horizon. The best computer chess playing program at that time, Deep Thought II'4, grabbed the Rook when tested on the board position. Human players evade the trap of capturing the poisoned Rook, because we do other things than look-ahead and perception. We create abstract representations of situations and reason over these representations. In the poisoned-rook test position, we realize that the chessboard is partitioned into two regions, which because of the peculiar and unlikely pawn formations, and the absence of pieces like the Knight or the black square Bishop for Black that can break these formations, are separated by an impermeable boundary. All that White needs to do, given that White is materially much weaker, is to maintain this boundary by doing arbitrary moves of the King in its territory. Black offers a Rook to be captured by a White Pawn, a distinct material advantage, but that is the one move that White should not make. While White gains a Rook, the move disrupts the protective boundary and eventually loses the game. Once the pawn formation is broken, the remaining material strength of Black, the Bishop and the other Rook which were of no use, can now come forcefully into action. FIGURE 8.38 A poisoned rook . In this unlikely chess position, human players quickly realize that it is (eventually) disastrous to capture the rook with the pawn. The program Deep Thought l apparently grabbed the rook given in this position (Seymour and Norwood, 1993). 8.3.1 Go A game in which these limitations of search are brought to fore much more forcefully is the ancient Eastern game of Go, that originated in ancient China. The main problem with using search on Go is that the branching factor is much too high and the search tree is much too large. This is because the game is played on a 19 x 19 board called goban' , made up of the intersections of nineteen vertical lines with nineteen horizontal ones. The basic move in the game i