entirely of our own making, and mostly reflects the nature of our devices. The earliest radios were made up of vacuum tubes, as were the earliest computers until the invention of the diode. Likewise, our telephones, television sets and cameras started off as analog devices and are now digital in nature. We can think of it as digital systems going more and more into the analog world. But we can also think of the analog representation as a way of looking at a world that is entirely digital, as Ed Fredkin would have us think. After all, we may think of continuously varying voltage and current, but the electrical signal is ultimately made up of electrons, which we do tend to think of as distinct particles . Similarly, we tend to think of flowing water as continuous material but we do know that it is a large collection of individual molecules obeying the laws of physics. Signal processing is becoming more and more digital signal processing. If we simulate a neural network then the weight of its synapses is represented by a number of finite precision in a computer. In the end, anything that we do on a digital computer has to be symbolic at the deepest level, because the digital machine can in the end distinguish between only two kinds of symbols 0 and 1. Nevertheless, we shall be concerned with only those symbolic systems in which the symbols mean something to us. These will include numerals to represent numbers, or words like apple and love , or even a variable routinely named X in a program. We will not deal with neural networks and similar systems in which we cannot interpret weights of edges, and what a node represents. We will be concerned, however, with networks of nodes, semantic nets, in which each node will represent something meaningful to us. The following section describes the contents of this book with some description that would allow one to eschew the linear narrative, and jump directly to some topic of interest. A Brief Look at the Chapters The study of Ar