ize,shape,
or weight. We can define more specialized categories of butter such as Unsalted Butter,
which is also a kind of stuff. Note that the category Pound Of Butter, which includes as
members all butter-objects weighing one pound, is not a kind of stuff. If we cut a pound of
butterinhalf,wedonot,alas,gettwopoundsofbutter.
Whatisactuallygoingonisthis: somepropertiesare intrinsic: theybelongtothevery
INTRINSIC
substance of the object, rather than to the object as a whole. When you cut an instance of
stuff in half, the twopieces retain the intrinsic properties things like density, boiling point,
flavor, color, ownership, and so on. On the other hand, their extrinsic properties weight,
EXTRINSIC
length, shape, and so on are not retained under subdivision. A category of objects that
includes in its definition only intrinsic properties is then a substance, or mass noun; a class
that includes any extrinsic properties in its definition is acount noun. Thecategory Stuff is
the mostgeneral substance category, specifying nointrinsic properties. Thecategory Thing
isthemostgeneraldiscreteobjectcategory, specifying no extrinsicproperties.
446 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
12.3 EVENTS
In Section 10.4.2, we showed how situation calculus represents actions and their effects.
Situationcalculus islimitedinitsapplicability: itwasdesigned todescribe aworldinwhich
actions are discrete, instantaneous, and happen one at a time. Consider a continuous action,
suchasfillingabathtub. Situationcalculuscansaythatthetubisemptybeforetheactionand
full when the action is done, but it can t talk about what happens during the action. It also
can t describe two actions happening at the same time such as brushing one s teeth while
waitingforthetubtofill. Tohandlesuchcasesweintroduce analternativeformalismknown
aseventcalculus,whichisbasedonpointsoftimeratherthanonsituations.3
EVENTCALCULUS
Event calculus reifies fluents and events. The fluent At(Shankar,Berkeley) is an ob-
ject that refers to