 as a search problem where the search space is the set of trees consistent with a given grammar. There are two extreme ways of performing this search: top down and bottom up. These two terms are used in Al to refer to goal driven and data driven search respectively. In the task of packing bags for travel, we can start with the goal in mind and make a list of items that achieve that goal. Alternately, we can look around in the room and try to identify those items that we need to carry. The first approach is top-down, the second is bottom-up. In practice, a mix of both approaches is usually used. S NP VP S VP NP N NP PRON NP DET NOUN NP DET NOUN PP NP V VP VP NP Figure 16.6 Rules of grammar. In the context of parsing, a top-down parser is constrained by the grammar and a bottom-up parser by words in the sentence. Consider the rules of grammar shown in Figure 16.6. Figure 16.7 illustrates the topdown process for the sentence Fix the bugs . All possible expansions of S, as suggested by these rules, are tried as shown in Level 1. The leaves of the trees in Level 1 define the new subgoals, which recursively lead to the generation of further levels. The generation stops when the leaves of the trees correspond to Parts of Speech. All trees whose leaves fail to match the words in the input sentence are rejected, the rest are recognized as syntactically valid parses of the sentence. In our example, the only parse tree that survives is shown at the bottom of Figure 16.7, in which Fix is a verb (phrase) and the bugs a noun phrase. Level 0 S Level 1 IN NP VP 1 VP Ss Ss Ss Ss Ss S VAN N IN YN 1 Level 2 NP vP np VP NP VP NP VP VP VP N peon 2 IPI I AN DET N DETN PP VoV- NP Ss l vP ing . VP NP Final Parse N V DETN Fix the bugs Figure 16.7 Top-down parsing. Bottom up parsing starts by labelling each word in the input sentence with their POS tags. The number of such possible labellings (see Level 1 in Figure 16.8) is a function of the number of POS tags each word can potentially take.