e Clear(A2,) needed for Unstack(A ,, Bo), and Stack(Ag, Bg) will delete Clear(Bg) needed for Stack(Bo1, Bg). As we can see, if FF uses the relaxed-plan-2 or relaxed-plan-3, the set of helpful actions would not have been helpful at all. One method suggested in (Hoffmann and Nebel, 2001) is to consider the union of actions in all relaxed plans as helpful actions. Another heuristic called added goal deletion works as follows. Let us say that a candidate state s has achieved a goal proposition peG. Now, FF constructs a relaxed plan P starting from the state s in order to evaluate the heuristic value, h F(s). If this plan P has a relaxed action a such that the corresponding action a has the goal proposition p in its delete effects then the added goal deletion heuristic says that state s should not be selected by enforced hill climbing. As an example, consider the goal On(A, B), On(B, C) when all three blocks A, B and C are on the table in the start state. The relaxed plan contains picking up blocks A and B, and stacking them on B and C respectively. relaxed-plan ( PickUp(A), PickUp(B) , Stack(A, B), Stack(B, C) ) Let us say the FF picks the (helpful) action PickUp(A), and in the next step follows it up with Stack(A, B) resulting in state s. Note that after picking up A, it needs to achieve ArmEmpty before it can pickup B, and that is why PickUp(B) is not the second action, and Stack(A, B) is. The resulting state s On(A, B), Clear(A), OnT(C), Clear(C), Armempty achieves the goal proposition On(A, B). But the relaxed plan from state s is, relaxed-plan ( Unstack(A, B) , Stack(A, B), Pickup(B) , Stack(B, C) ) which contains the action Unstack(A, B) which deletes the goal that was achieved in s, that is On(A, B). Thus, using the added goal deletion heuristic state s is not selected by EHC. Observe that having picked up A, FF needs to do something with it. If it were using the helpful actions heuristics, it would have pruned away the PutDown(A) action, and would then get stuck