and relatignships associated with Wikipedia resources, including links to other related datasets. And openCYC is an ontology of everyday common te A catalog of the projects that are linked in the LOD clou is haiained by Richard Cyganiak and Anja Jentzsch'? Collectively, the 295 data sets consist of over 31 billion RDF triples, which are interlinked by around 504 million RDF links as of September 20118. The Figure 13.5 (see the source (Cyganiak and Jentzsch, 2011) for an enlarged readable view) shows that the number of datasets in the LOD cloud has been steadily increasing" The Figure 13.6 below shows another view of a part of the above graph in a little more detail. 13.3.3 Querying Graph Databases with SPARQL RDF is a directed, labeled graph data format for representing information in the Web. RDF data stores can also be queried using their own query language SPARQL (SPARQL Protocol And RDF Query Language)' . A query may be placed at the SPARQL endpoint of any RDF database. ratert ood meat OTP (aes e We i ( ). a ) South- f ampton FOAF Rea ra brainz M (see Pome ( Proms Vaan Son) es updated - RDF Book Geo- ie Mashup a aes a DBpedia pT oN y Jamendo a wa Ng TS (ee mt Berlin iy a ee a DBLP Census ag ff LNew? . Hannover dat af a Fact- fe) ( xT Pr ni Ns wy, a stat Nh rane roject - New! ter) Cooke xe XN pl) Guten- Gov. (wisidt New! (we baa W3C i eee company FIGURE 13.4 The Linking Open Data cloud in 2007 (Cyganiak, 2007). Like its relational cousin SQL, SPARQL also employs a SELECT statement to determine which subset of the selected data is returned. It also uses a WHERE clause to define graph patterns to find a match for in the query data set. A graph pattern in a WHERE clause consists of the subject, predicate and object triple to find a match for in the data. The FROM clause is used to identify the dataset from where the answers are to be retrieved, and clauses like ORDER BY and DISTINCT can be used to control the manner in which the results are presented. Observe that t