 different explanations for errors in such knowledge, as when we see a ind mistake it to be a snake. five elements are earth, water, light, air and ether. that we have omitted some brackets and have combined multiple sentences with the And cor ften does that when it does not cause any ambiguity. sider the case where premise is P and the conclusion (7Q V Q). tly speaking a substitution step Q 77 has to be applied before disjunctive syllogism is applica also commonplace to refer to the set of statements as a database of facts (and rules). lave assumed that the required instances of rules are readily available for the sake of simplicity. aluation can make (S A 7S) true and therefore also the CNF formula containing it. Syntactically educe the formula to false by first applying the substitution (a A7a) false followed by ation of the substitution rule (a A false) false st order resolitizinhiiecprocedure may go into an infinite loop. e could be other quantifiers as well, for example there exists exactly one x such that... , but me vith only these two. nstant can also be thought of as a function of arity 0, so the two are in fact similar. 2nyou have eliminated all which is impossible, then whatever remains, however improbable, mu '- to quote Sherlock Holmes from The Adventure of the Blanched SeldienuayeSin Arthur Conan D neral the functions and predicates can have an arbitrary number of arguments. nap LessThan(x, y) to (x y) in the domain. for example http-: en. wikipedict.org wiki Prolog ise the square bracket list notation in text for ease of reading, and the cons notation in the logic e early eighties the Japanese government embarked upon the Fifth Generation computing pre the heart of the machine was a logic programming system (Feigenbaum and McCorduck, 19: Is were to be measured in LIPS (Logical Inferences Per Second). forward chaining, it is not complete for general FOL. ((P(0) A Wi (P(i) D Pli 1)) D Vi(P(i) is a well known puzzle. The question assumes that the surgeo