am is a child)] A simple proof that (sam is a child) would proceed as follows. From C3 and D4 infer that (sam is a man) -. (sam is a child) From Dl and El using modus ponens conclude (sam is a child) Temporal Logics Temporal logics use modal operators in relation to concepts of time, such as past. present, future, sometimes, always, preceeds, succeeds, and so on. An example of two operators which correspond to necessity and possibility are always (A) and 96 Dealing with Inconsistencies and Uncertainties Chap. 5 sometimes (S). A propositional temporal logic system using these operators would include the propositional logic assumptions of Chapt 4, the operators A and S, and appropriate axioms. Typical formulas using the a and S operators with the predicate Q would be written as AQ SQ (if always Q then sometimes Q) AQ 'Q (if always Q then Q) Q *SQ (if Q then sometimes Q) SQ -i' A (if sometimes Q then not always not Q) A combination of propositional and temporal logic inference rules would then be added to obtain a formal system. In addition to the above operators, the tense operators past (P) and future (F) have also been used. For example, tense formulas for the predicate (tweety files) would be written as (tweety flies) present tense. P(tweety flies) past tense: Tweety flew. F(tweety flies) future tense: Tweety will fly. FP(tweety flies) future perfect tense: Tweety will have flown. It is also possible to define other modalities from the ones given above. For example, to express the concepts it has always been and it will always be the operators H and G may be defined respectively as HQ PQ (it has always been the case that Q) GQ = FQ (it will always be the case that Q) The four operators P. F. H, and Ci were used by the logician Lemmon (1965) to define a propositional tense logic he called KT. The language used consisted of propositional logic assumptions, the four tense operators P. F. H, and 6, and the following axioms: G(Q -. R) - (GQ -+ GR) H(Q -, R) -i' (HQ -. H