strong constraints on the domain of discourse so that only a more limited knowledge base is necessary. The way this knowledge is organized is critical to the success of the understanding program. In the rest of this section, we discuss briefly how some of the knowledge representations described in Chapters 9 and 10 can be exploited by a language-understanding program. In particular, we focus on the use of the following kinds of knowledge: The current focus of the dialogue A model of each participant s current beliefs The goal-driven character of dialogue The rules of conversation shared by all participants Although these issues are complex, we discuss them only briefly here. Most of the hard problems are not peculiar to natural language processing. They involve reasoning about objects, events, goals, plans, intentions, beliefs. and likelihoods, and we have discussed all these issues in some detail elsewhere. Our goal in this section is to tie those reasoning mechanisms into the process of natural language understanding. 15.4.1 Using Focus in Understanding There are two important parts of the process of using knowledge to facilitate understanding: * Focus on the relevant part(s) of the availahle knowledge base. Use that knowledge to resolve ambiguities and to make connections among things that were said. The first of these is critical if the amount of knowledge available is large. Some techniques for handling this were outlined in Section 4.3.5, since the problem arises whenever knowledge structures are to be used. The linguistic properties of coherent discourse, however, provide some additional mechanisms for focusing. For example, the structure of task-oriented discourses typically mirrors the structure of the task. Consider the following sequence of (highly simplified) instructions: To make the forte, first make the cake, then, while the cake is baking, make the filling. To make the cake, combine all ingredients. Pour them into the pans, and bake for 30 minutes. T