junctive hypotheses are also restrictive in the concepts that they can describe . 4 We observed in several chapters that handling disjunction is a difficult proposition for reasoning. For example, Horn Clause reasoning is unable to prove disjunctive conclusions. 5 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Twenty Questions 6 See http: en. wikipedia.org wiki ID3 algorithm and http: en. wikipedia. org wiki C4.5 algorithm for links. 7 with inputs from Deepak S Padmanabhan. 8 The notation (.) is used when the argument is not referenced. 9 We have observed in Chapter 17 that a distance measure can be 3 used to define a similarity measure. 10 See http: www.ratbehavior.org RatsAndMazes.htm 11 Quoting Patrick H Winston again the computer is an ideal experimental subject, requires little care and feeding, is endlessly patient, and does not bite. If one is using the multilayer feedforward network for the task of function approximation, the output layer is linear, and not a squashing function. In the literature, such networks are also referred to as two layer networks, signifying the fact that there are two layers of neurons with the sigmoid function that need to be trained. 14 Here, one is talking of representing the knowledge associated with the domain. Of course, since artificial neural networks are realized on digital computers, at some lower level they are symbolic too. 15 Consider also the slow pace at which human infants learn, and the amount of time humans need to become self reliant. This is perhaps a price we have to pay for having our versatile brains. Developers of computer system applications may not have this kind of patience. On the flip side however, once we do manage to train systems to do tasks like handwriting recognition, or speech recognition, these abilities could be easily replicated in multiple copies, and embedded into different applications. 16 See hitp: heli.stanford.edu 17 See http: www.rci.rutgers.edu cfs 472 htmi Learn Winston.html 18 See http: en.wikipedia.