ofmotions: Rollingforwardaspecifieddistance. Rotatinginplacethrough aspecifiedangle.
The state of such a robot can be characterized in terms of three parameters (cid:16)x,y, , the x-
coordinate and y-coordinate of the robot (more precisely, of its center of rotation) and the
robot sorientationexpressedastheanglefromthepositivexdirection. Theaction Roll(D) has the effect of changing state (cid:16)x,y, to (cid:16)x Dcos( ),y Dsin( ), (cid:17), and the action
Rotate( )hastheeffectofchanging state(cid:16)x,y, (cid:17)to(cid:16)x,y, (cid:17).
a. Supposethattherobotisinitiallyat(cid:16)0,0,0(cid:17)andthenexecutestheactions Rotate(60 ), Roll(1),Rotate(25 ),Roll(2). Whatisthefinalstateoftherobot?
1018 Chapter 25. Robotics
robot
sensor
range
goal
Figure25.33 Simplifiedrobotinamaze. See Exercise25.9.
b. Now suppose that the robot has imperfect control of its own rotation, and that, if it
attemptstorotateby ,itmayactuallyrotatebyanyanglebetween 10 and 10 .
In that case, if the robot attempts to carry out the sequence of actions in (A), there is
a range of possible ending states. What are the minimal and maximal values of the
x-coordinate, they-coordinate andtheorientation inthefinalstate?
c. Let us modify the model in (B) to a probabilistic model in which, when the robot
attempts to rotate by , its actual angle of rotation follows a Gaussian distribution with mean and standard deviation 10 . Suppose that the robot executes the actions Rotate(90 ), Roll(1). Giveasimpleargument that (a)theexpected value oftheloca- tionattheendisnotequaltotheresultofrotatingexactly 90 andthenrollingforward
1 unit, and (b) that the distribution of locations at the end does not follow a Gaussian.
(Donotattempttocalculate thetruemeanorthetruedistribution.)
Thepoint of this exercise is that rotational uncertainty quickly gives rise to alot of
positional uncertainty and that dealing with rotational uncertainty is painful, whether
uncertainty istreated in terms of hard intervals orprobabilistically, d