rogram was written by Lenat [1977: 1982]. It was called AM, and it worked from a few basic concepts of set theory to discover a good deal of standard number theory. 5 Sometimes, there is no one in the world who has the knowledge we seek. In that case, the kind of action we must take is called scientific discovery. 368 Artificial Intelligence SNE SE a T EASE AM exploited a variety of general-purpose AJ techniques. It used a frame system to represent mathematical concepts. One of the major activities of AM is to create new concepts and fill in their slots. An example of an AM concept is shown in Fig. 17.16. AM also uses heuristic search, guided by a set of 250 heuristic niles representing hints about activities that are likely to lead to interesting discoveries. Examples of the kind of heuristics AM used are shown in Fig. 17.17. Generate-and-test is used to form hypotheses on the basis of a small number of examples and then to test the hypotheses on a larger set to see if they still appear to hold. Finally, an agenda controls the entire discovery process. When the heuristics suggest a task, it is placed on a central agenda, along with the reason that it was suggested and the strength with which it was suggested. AM operates in cycles, each time choosing the most promising task from the agenda and performing it. name : Prime-Numbers definitions : origin : Number-of-divisors-of{x) = 2 predicate-caiculus: Prime(x) <> (Vz)(z| x => (z= 1@ z= x) iterative : (for x > 1): For i from 2 to vx, i Xx examples : 2, 3,5, 7, 11, 13, 17 boundary : 2, 3 boundary-failures : 0, 1 failures : 12 generalizations : Number, numbers with an even number of divisors specializations : Odd primes, prime pairs, prime uniquely addables conjecs : Unique factorization, Goldbach's conjecture, extremes of number-of-divisors-of intus ; A metaphor to the effect that primes are the building blocks of aff numbers analogies : Maximaily divisible numbers are converse extremes of number-of-divisors-of Factor 