er approach is to transform the sentences directly into the target structures with little syntactical analysis. Such approaches typically depend on the use of constraints given by semantic grammars or place strong reliance on the use of key words to extract meaning. Between these two extremes, are approaches which perform syntactic and semantic analyses concurrently, using semantic information to guide the parse, and the Structure learned through the syntactical analysis is used to help determine meaning. Another dimension related to semantic interpretation is the approach taken in extracting the meaning of an expression, (I) whether it can or should be derived by paraphrasing input utterances and transforming them into structures containing a few generic terms or (2) whether meanings are best derived by composing the meanings of clauses and larger units from the meanings of their constituent parts. These two methods of approach are closely tied to the form of the target semantic str Lctures. The first of these approaches we call unit or Ie.rieal semaniics to emphasize the role played by the pccial primitive words used to represent the meanings of all expressions. In this approach the meaning is constructed through a restatement of' the expression in terms of linked primitive generic words such as those used in Shank's conceptual dependency theory (Chapter 7. The second approach r, called eonwosoiiil semantics since the meaning of In expression is derived from thc ..anings ascribed te the constituent palls The structures createi thrcoih this approach are usually characterized as logical formulae in some calculus such as FPl.. or an extended FOPI. Lexical Semantics Approaches The semantic grammars described in Sect Lon 12.2 are one form of approach based on the use of lexical semantics. With this approach, input sentences are transformed throug h the ue of domain dependent semantic rewrite rules which create the target knowledge strucoires. A second example of an iif