st conflict, there is only one minimal candidate, the empty set, and it does not explain the conflict. Hence it is removed, and replaced by three candidates M , Mp , and A; which are singleton candidates. The situation is shown in Figure 17.13. The interpretation of this set of candidates is any of them or any of their ancestors could represent the broken set and that would be consistent with the observation (in this case the set of input and output values). This implies that the supremum is always a candidate for being broken, but that only tells us that the entire set of candidates is broken, or that the device is broken. The reason why we only consider the minimal candidates as diagnosis is that if that candidate is the diagnosis, then the components in that are necessarily broken. Observe that M3 , Az and M3, Ao are neither candidates nor are they the ancestors of any candidate. They are in the clear, and not suspects any more. This means that by themselves, they cannot explain all the conflict sets. The candidate is also out of contention. It cannot be the case that no component is broken, because that would be inconsistent with the observations (or the conflict sets). Next, the second conflict A;, Az, M;, M3 has to be processed. Of the three candidates in Figure 17.14, A and M, can explain the conflict since each has one element in the conflict. The remaining candidate M2 does not, and has to be discarded. The following extensions have to be considered instead M2, A , M2, Aa , (M1, Mo and M2, M3 . That is, if Mz is broken then one of Ay, Ao, M;, and M3 must also be broken. Of these candidates, M2, A; is subsumed by (is a superset of) A , and M,, Mo is subsumed by M, . They are not minimal and have to be discarded. The remaining two are added to the set of candidates which now constitutes of Ay , M4 , Mo, Ao and Mo, M3 , as shown in Figure 17.15. The reader should verify that these are the four minimal hitting sets for the two conflicts sets we started with. Th