 tools that are developed to support one classification or diagnosis task are often useful for another, while different tools are useful for solving various kinds of design tasks. 20.1 REPRESENTING AND USING DOMAIN KNOWLEDGE Expert systems are complex AI programs. Almost all the techniques that we described in Parts I and II have been exploited in at least one expert system. However, the most widely used way of representing domain knowledge in expert systems is as a set of production rules, which are often coupled with a frame system that defines the objects that occur in the rules. In Section 8.2, we saw one example of an expert system rule, which was taken from the MYCIN system. Let s look at a few additional examples drawn from some other | | | Expert Systems 423 representative expert systems. All the rules we show are English versions of the actual rules that the systems use. Differences among these mules illustrate some of the important differences in che ways that expert systems operate. : RI [Mc Dermott, 1982; Mc Dermott, 19841 (sometimes also called XCON) is a program that configures DEC VAX systems. Its rules look like this: If: the most current active context is distributing *massbus devices, and there is a single-port disk drive that has not been assigned to a massbus, and there are no unassigned dual-port disk drives, and the number of devices that each massbus should support is known, and there is a massbus that has been assigned at least one disk drive and that should support additional disk drives, and the type of cable needed to connect the disk drive to the previous device on the massbus is known then: assign the disk drive to the massbus. Notice that RI s rules, unlike MYCIN s, contain no numeric measures of certainty. In the task domain with which RI deals, it is possible to state exactly the correct thing to be done in each particular set of circumstances (although it may require a relatively complex set of antecedents to do so), One reason for t