ringsrepresenting8-queensstates.
The initial population in (a) is ranked by the fitness function in (b), resulting in pairs for
matingin(c). Theyproduceoffspringin(d),whicharesubjecttomutationin(e). Figure4.7 The8-queensstatescorrespondingtothefirsttwoparentsin Figure4.6(c)and
thefirstoffspringin Figure4.6(d).Theshadedcolumnsarelostinthecrossoverstepandthe
unshadedcolumnsareretained.
Like beam searches, GAs begin with a set of k randomly generated states, called the
population. Eachstate,orindividual,isrepresented asastringoverafinitealphabet most
POPULATION
commonly,astringof0sand1s. Forexample,an8-queensstatemustspecifythepositionsof
INDIVIDUAL
8queens, each inacolumn of 8squares, and so requires 8 log 8 24 bits. Alternatively,
2
thestatecouldberepresentedas8digits,eachintherangefrom1to8. (Wedemonstratelater
that the two encodings behave differently.) Figure 4.6(a) shows a population of four 8-digit
stringsrepresenting 8-queens states.
The production of the next generation of states is shown in Figure 4.6(b) (e). In (b),
each state is rated by the objective function, or(in GAterminology) the fitnessfunction. A
FITNESSFUNCTION
fitness function should return higher values for better states, so, for the 8-queens problem
we use the number of nonattacking pairs of queens, which has a value of 28 for a solution.
The values of the four states are 24, 23, 20, and 11. In this particular variant of the genetic
algorithm, the probability of being chosen for reproducing is directly proportional to the
fitnessscore,andthepercentages areshownnexttotherawscores.
In (c), two pairs are selected at random for reproduction, in accordance with the prob-
128 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
abilities in (b). Notice that one individual is selected twice and one not at all.4 For each
pair to be mated, a crossover point is chosen randomly from the positions in the string. In
CROSSOVER
Figure4.6,thecrossoverpointsareafterthethirddigitin thefirstpairandafterthefifthdigit
inthesecondpair.