vidual may be planning a meal, or building a house. Many real world situations, however, have multiple agents involved. In such situations, the problem-solving agents have to consider the actions of the other agents too, because they affect the world the agent is operating in. The agents may be collaborating with each other, they may be competing with each other, or they may be antagonistic to each other. Interaction between agents has most commonly been studied by abstracting them as games. Games are formalisms that are used in various fields of study, ranging from economics to war. The common feature is that they attempt to devise models of rationality in the face of other agents being active. John von Neumann (Neumann and Morgenstern, 1944), the prolific computer scientist, is also credited with pioneering work in formalizing games and is often referred to as the father of Game Theory. The following example, known as the Prisoner s Dilemma, illustrates the kind of problems posed by von Neumann (Poundstone, 1993). Prisoner s Dilemma Imagine that the police have in their custody two suspects of a bank robbery, but no real evidence. Their only chance lies in a confession from one or both of them. They interrogate them in separate chambers, and offer each a lighter sentence if they confess, and betray the partner. Imagine, for a moment, that you are one of the two suspects. In the normal form of game (McCain, 2004) representation, a payoff matrix can be constructed, as follows: Payoff Yours his FIGURE 8.1 A payoff matrix for Prisoner's Dilemma. You confess 100 100 You deny 200 10 If both confess, they get -100 each. If only one confesses, he escapes with 10 but the other gets 200. If both deny, each gets 50 for possession of an illegal firearm. As one can see, the combined optimal payoff is achieved by both denying and getting a total penalty of 100. However, there is the temptation to betray the other and escape with 10. Seen from an individual perspective, the foll