ed reader to (Muscettola et al., 1998). Here, we simply list the functions performed by MI and MR. The mode identification system does the following in the Remote Agent. Mode Confirmation Informs the EXEC that a particular command was executed successfully. Anomaly Detection Identifies observed spacecraft behaviour that is inconsistent with the expected behaviour. Fault Isolation and Tracking Identifies components whose failure caused the observed anomalies. Token Tracking Helps plan monitoring by tracking the state of attributes of interest to the executive. The state of the spacecraft is expressed in the form of configuration goals. When the spacecraft deviates from active configuration goals, the mode reconfiguration capability finds a least cost set of control actions that moves the spacecraft to an acceptable configuration. MR does this by one of the following. Mode Configuration Move to a least cost configuration that is acceptable. Recovery Move the spacecraft from a failure state to one that restores a desired function, either by repairing a failed component, or by finding alternate ways of achieving those goals. Standby and Safing If unable to place the spacecraft in a desired configuration, move it to the standby state and wait for the high level planner or the ground station to find a solution. As reported in (J nsson et al., 2000), the Remote Agent Experiment (RAX) was conducted in May 1999, when the RA controlled the Deep Space One spacecraft completely autonomously. The experiment demonstrates the capability of planning and execution of plans, and also the capability of doing model-based inference for recovery from failures. In summary, RA achieves robust plan execution (Muscettola et al., 1998) by Executing flexible plans by running multiple, parallel threads and using fast constraint propagation algorithms in EXEC to exploit plan flexibility Choosing a high level of abstraction for planned activities, so as to delegate as many detailed activity decis