d systems. Since the acceptance of this important fact, successful problem solvers in many domains have been developed. 2.2 DEFINITION AND IMPORTANCE OF KNOW%,EDGE Knowledge can be defined as the body of facts and principles accumulated by humankind or the act, fact, or state of knowing. White this definition may be true, it is far from complete. We know that knowledge is much more than this. It is having a familiarity with language. concepts. procedures. rules, ideas, abstractions, places, customs, facts, and associations, coupled with an ability to use these notions effectively in modeling different aspects of the world. Without this ability, the facts and concepts are meaningless and, therefore, worthless. The meaning of knowledge is closely related to the meaning of intelligence. Intelligence requires the possession of and access to knowledge. And a characteristic of intelligent people is that they possess much knowledge. In biological organisms, knowledge is likely stored as complex structures of interconnected neurons. The structures correspond to symbolic representations of the krowtedge possessed by the organism, the facts, rules, and so on. The average huni .n brain weighs about 3.3 pounds and contains an estimated number of 10 neurons. The neurons and their interconnection capabilities provide about 101* bits of potential storage capacity (Sagan, 1977). In computers. knowledge is also stored as symbolic structures, but in the form of collections of magnetic spots and voltage states. State-of-the-artstorage in computers is in the range of 1012 bits with capacities doubling about every three to four years. The gap between human and computer storage capacities is narrowing -apidly. Unfortunately. there is still a wide gap between representation schemes and efficiencies: A common way to represent knowledge external to a computer or a human is in the form of written language. For example, some facts and relations represented in printed English are Joe is tall. 