nstruct complex representations. We look at examples of English language sentences and their CD representations. When we believe something then that conceptualization is resident in our imm diatkhuhemory. For example, I believe that Kasparov is brilliant would be represented as shown on top in Figure 13.10. This representa N, i a state description. In terms of logic this is like saying that the formula Rd asparov) is an element in my set of beliefs. We introduce the act CONC to correspond to the active notion of thinking , which could be a short form for something like MTRANSing something to or even within the CP (conscious processor). This is a more conscious or active way of thinking. Then a sentence like I think that Kasparov is brilliant could be represented as shown in the bottom part of the figure. Kasparov 4 The fact Kasparov is I LOC(IM) brilliant resides in my x Talal y y F POSS-BY memory. brilliant XN Kasparov 4 lam thinking I CONC about the fact that V Kasparov is brilliant . brilliant FIGURE 13.10 Two sense of the word believe The reader might object that the two statements are in fact saying the same thing in a different way. That might be true, since the latter is often used to mean the former. But that does not belie the fact that the two representations are conceptually distinct. One is a description of a state of belief, the other represents a conscious thought process, an act. People often fail to find the best phrases to express themselves accurately, and could well do with the advice the March Hare gave to Alice (in Wonderland), Then you should say what you mean . The reader must also realize that a compact symbolic account of thought processes as with the CD theory does not claim to explain the thought process in the cognitive science sense. In all likelihood, we do not move around formulas when we talk and think. But this is merely a way to create models that might help explain some aspects of the behaviour, and contribute to building useful co