s compared with a method that attempts to form partial solutions directly by choosing specific values for components of the eventual solution. For example, a straightforward search procedure to solve a cryptarithmetic problem might operate in a state space of partial solutions in which letters are assigned particular numbers as their valuer. A depth-first control scheme could then follow a path of assignments until either a solution or an inconsistency is discovered. In contrast, a constraint satisfaction approach to solving this problem avoids making guesses on particular assignments of numbers to letters until it has to. Instead, the initial set of constraints, which says that each number may correspond to only one letter and that the sums of the digits must be as they are given in the problem, is first augmented to include restrictions that can be inferred from the rules of arithmetic. Then, although guessing may still be required, the number of allowable guesses is reduced and so the degree of search is curtailed. Heuristic Search Techniques 69 sere ance PSA rae DR SKOOL HENCE Constraint satisfaction is a search procedure that operates in a space of constraint sets. The initial state contains the constraints that are originally given in the problem description. A Goal State is any state that has been constrained enough, where enough must be defined for each problem. For example, for cryptarithmetic, enough means that each letter has been assigned a unique numeric value. Constraint satisfaction is a two-step process. First, constraints are discovered and propagated as far as possible throughout the system. Then, if there is still not a solution, search begins. A guess about something is made and added as a new constraint. Propagation can then occur with this new constraint, and so forth. The first step, propagation, arises from the fact that there are usually dependencies among the constraints. These dependencies occur because many constraints involve more than o