l loaded when a shot is fired at a later time instance. (see for example http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Yale shooting problem). If one were allowed to have negative facts in the goal condition, for example (not (on(B, C)), then an additional condition would be needed stating that g N effects (a) g. In PDDL3.0 one can even talk of conditions on the trajectory of the plan. The term linear planning has also been used for planning systems in which a plan is a linear order on actions, and the partial plan is extended action by action in a linear order. Also known as an open goal, open subgoal, or an open condition. In the planning literature, the term goal is often used for a precondition or subgoal. When the representation we are working with may contain variables, we will stick to the convention of identifying them by prefixing the question mark. These are different from the variables in algorithms which are programming variables, and are names for memory locations or values. These variables are more like variables in mathematics that stand for something unknown. Either P Q or both P and Q are of the form R(?X , ..., ?2X,) and the variables in P and Q can be unified. We look at unification in more detail in Chapter 12 on logic and inference. 10 This could be computationally expensive though. 11 CHOOSE makes a choice non-deterministically. In practice, this will be a choice point where the algorithm may need to backtrack to. 12 In practice, we might in fact decide to fly to Munich and leave the details for the travel agent to work out, but we wish to illustrate one (problem solving) agent solving the travel problem. Also, other considerations might warrant a train from Frankfurt to Munich. Also known as the Towers of Brahma. According to Hindu mythology, Brahma gave the task of moving a 64-disk tower to pandits (priests) in Benaras (now Varanasi). The world is supposed to come to an end when they complete the task. 14 By level of abstraction, we mean the level in the tree 