 is exploited in the contract net framework. See Fox [1981], Malone [1987], and Kornfeld and Hewitt [1981] for further discussion of this idea. Another source of ideas is the way a single human brain functions, The book, The Society of Mind {Minsky, 1985] explores the notion that single minds are also distributed systems, composed of collections of heterogeneous agents that simultaneously cooperate and compete. EXERCISES 1. Consider a situation in which one agent Al requests help from a second agent A2 to help find a movie it would like. Al knows what it likes and A2 knows about movies. (a) Using the belief and communication operators that we have defined (plus any others that you find it useful to define), write a plan that could be used by Al. (b) Write a similar plan for A2. Consider the following payoff matrix: be 3 1 If Q assumes P is rational, what move should Q make? 3. Show how the HEARSAY-II blackboard system could be extended to support the whole natural language understanding process that we described in Chapter 15. 4. Show how a speech understanding system could be built using an MACE-style architecture. CHAPTER 17 LEARNING That men do not learn very much from the lessons of history ts the most important of al the lessons of history. Aldous Huxley (1894-1963), American Writer and Author 17.1 WHAT IS LEARNING? One of the most often heard criticisms of AT is that machines cannot be called intelligent until they are able to learn to do new things and to adapt to new situations, rather than simply doing as they are told to do. There can be little question that the ability to adapt to new surroundings and to solve new proolems is an important characteristic of intelligent entities. Can we expect to see such abilities in programs? Ada Augusta, one of the earliest philosophers of computing, wrote that The Analytical Engine has no pretensions whatever to originate anything. It can do whatever we know how to order it to perform. [Lovelace, 1961] This remark has b