ersionsofthepath-planningprob-
lem throughout this book; the complication added by robotics is that path planning involves
continuousspaces. Therearetwomainapproaches: celldecompositionandskeletonization.
Each reduces the continuous path-planning problem to a discrete graph-search problem. In
thissection,weassumethatmotionisdeterministicandthatlocalizationoftherobotisexact.
Subsequent sections willrelaxtheseassumptions.
25.4.1 Configurationspace
We will start with a simple representation for a simple robot motion problem. Consider the
robot arm shown in Figure 25.14(a). It has two joints that move independently. Moving
the joints alters the (x,y) coordinates of the elbow and the gripper. (The arm cannot move
in the z direction.) This suggests that the robot s configuration can be described by a four-
dimensionalcoordinate: (x ,y )forthelocationoftheelbowrelativetotheenvironmentand
e e
(x ,y ) for the location of the gripper. Clearly, these four coordinates characterize the full
g g
WORKSPACE state of the robot. They constitute what is known as workspace representation, since the
REPRESENTATION
coordinates oftherobotarespecifiedinthesamecoordinate system astheobjects itseeksto
manipulate (or to avoid). Workspace representations are well-suited for collision checking,
especially iftherobotandallobjectsarerepresented bysimplepolygonal models.
The problem with the workspace representation is that not all workspace coordinates
areactually attainable, eveninthe absence ofobstacles. Thisisbecause ofthe linkagecon-
LINKAGE straints on the space of attainable workspace coordinates. Forexample, the elbow position
CONSTRAINTS
(x ,y ) and the gripper position (x ,y ) are always a fixed distance apart, because they are
e e g g
joined byarigid forearm. Arobot motion plannerdefined over workspace coordinates faces
the challenge of generating paths that adhere to these constraints. This is particularly tricky
Section25.4. Planningto Move 987
table
eelb
table
sshou
ee vertical
obsta