er of different methods. For example, we can learn by memorizing facts, by being told, or by studying examples like problem solutions. Learning requires that new knowledge structures be created from some form of input stimulus. This new knowledge must then be assimilated into a knowledge base and be tested in some way for its utility. Testing means that the knowledge should be used in the performance of some task from which meaningful feedback can be obtained, where the feedback provides some measure of the accuracy and usefulness of the newly acquired knowledge. A general learning model is depicted in Figure 16.1 where the environment has been included as part of the overall learner system. The environment may be regarded as either a form of nature which produces random stimuli or as a more 362 General Concepts in Knowledge Acquisition Chap. 16 Strnuli examples r Feedback component Environment or teacher 1' i Critic Knowledge performance base evaluator Response Performance component Tasks Figure 16.1 General learning rniidcl. organized training source such as a teacher which provides carefully selected training examples for the learner component. The actual form of environment used will depend on the particular learning paradigm. In any case, some representation language must be assumed for communication between the environment and the learner. The language may be the same representation scheme as that used in the knowledge base (such as a form of predicate calculus). When they are chosen to be the same. we say the single representation trick is being used. This usually results in a simpler implementation since It is not necessary to transform between two or more different representations. For some systems the environment may he a user working at a keyboard. Other systems will use program modules to simulate a particular environment. In even more realistic cases, the system will have real physical sensors which interface with some world environment. Inputs to the l