ces is unsatisfiable
Ground resolution
theorem
Resolution can find a contradiction in S'
Lifting lemma
There is a resolution proof for the contradiction in S'
Figure9.13 Structureofacompletenessproofforresolution.
Tocarryoutthefirststep,weneedthreenewconcepts:
HERBRAND Herbrand universe: If S is a set of clauses, then H , the Herbrand universe of S, is
UNIVERSE S
thesetofallgroundtermsconstructable fromthefollowing:
a. Thefunction symbolsin S,ifany.
b. Theconstant symbolsin S,ifany;ifnone,thentheconstant symbol A.
Forexample,if S containsjusttheclause P(x,F(x,A)) Q(x,A) R(x,B),then
H isthefollowinginfinitesetofground terms:
S A,B,F(A,A),F(A,B),F(B,A),F(B,B),F(A,F(A,A)),... . Saturation: If S is a set of clauses and P is a set of ground terms, then P(S), the
SATURATION
saturation of S with respect to P, isthe set of allground clauses obtained by applying
allpossible consistent substitutions ofgroundtermsin P withvariablesin S. Herbrand base: The saturation of a set S of clauses with respect to its Herbrand uni-
HERBRANDBASE
verse is called the Herbrand base of S, written as H (S). For example, if S contains
S
solelytheclausejustgiven,then H (S)istheinfinitesetofclauses
S P(A,F(A,A)) Q(A,A) R(A,B), P(B,F(B,A)) Q(B,A) R(B,B), P(F(A,A),F(F(A,A),A)) Q(F(A,A),A) R(F(A,A),B), P(F(A,B),F(F(A,B),A)) Q(F(A,B),A) R(F(A,B),B),... HERBRAND S Thesedefinitionsallowustostateaformof Herbrand stheorem(Herbrand, 1930):
THEOREM
Ifaset S ofclausesisunsatisfiable, thenthereexistsafinitesubsetof H (S)that
S
isalsounsatisfiable.
(cid:2)
Let S bethisfinitesubsetofgroundsentences. Now,wecanappealtothegroundresolution
(cid:2)
theorem (page 255) to show that the resolution closure RC(S ) contains the empty clause.
(cid:2)
Thatis,running propositional resolution tocompletion on S willderiveacontradiction.
Now that we have established that there is always a resolution proof involving some
finite subset of the Herbrand base of S, the next step is to show that there is a resolution
352 Chapter 9. 