mple and powerful, it can fail to produce an appropriate answer for either of two reasons. The first is that its assumptions are not always true in the world; some parts of the world are not realistically closable. We saw this problem in the murder story exarnple. There were facts that were relevant to the investigation that had not yet been uncovered and so were not present in the knowledge base. The CWA will yield appropriate results exactly to the extent that the assumption that all the relevant positive facts are present in the knowledge base is true. The second kind of problem that plagues the CWA arises from the fact that it is a purely syntactic reasoning process. Thus, as you would expect, its results depend on the form of the assertions that are provided. Let s look at two specific examples of this problein. Consider a knowledge base that consists of just a single statement: A(VJoe) \/ BUJoe) The CWA allows us to conclude hoth ? AVJoe) and ?8(Joe), since neither A nor 6 must necessarily be true of Joe. Unfortunately, the resulting extended knowledge base A(loe) \/ BUJoe) 7A (VJoe) =B(Joe) is inconsistent. The problem is that we have assigned a special status to positive instances of predicates, as opposed to negative ones. Specifically, the CWA forces completion of a Knowledge base by adding the negative assertion *P whenever it is consistent to do so, But the assignment of a real world property to some predicate P and its complement to the negation of P may be arbitrary. For example, suppose we define a predicate Single and create the following knowledge base: Single(John) Single(Mary) Then, if we ask about Jane, the CWA will yield the answer >Sing/e/Janc). But now suppose we had chosen instead to use the predicate Married rather than Single. Then the corresponding knowledge base would be a Married(Johri) ~Married(Mary) If we now ask about Jane, the CWA will yield the result ~Married(Jane). Circumscription Although the CWA captures part of the idea that an