clude the development of FORTRAN (begun in 1954) and Noam Chomsky's work between 1955 and 1957 on the theory of generative grammars. Chomsky's work had a strong influence on Al in the area of computational linguistics or natural language processing. Important events of the late 1950s were centered around pattern recognition and self-adapting systems. During this period Rosenblatt's perceptions (Rosenblatt. 1958) were receiving much attention. Perceptrons are types of pattern recognition devices that have a simple learning ability based on linear threshold logic (described in detail in Chapter 17). This same period (1958) marked the beginning of the development of LISP by John Mc Carthy. one of the recognized programming languages of Al. It also marked the formation of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Al laboratory. Several important programming projects were also begun during the late 1950s, including the General Problem Solver (GPS) developed by Newell. Shaw, and Simon (Ernst and Newell, 1969) written in IPL. Gelernters geometry theorem-proving machine written in FORTRAN at the IBM Research Center, and the Elementary Perceiver and Memorizer (EPAM) developed by Edward Feigenbaum and Herbert Simon and written in IPL. GPS was developed to solve a variety of problems ranging from symbolic Integration to word puzzles (such as the missionary-cannibal problem). GPS used a problem-solving technique known as means-end analysis discussed later in Chapter 9. The geometry theorem-proving machine of Gelernter was developed to solve high-school level plane geometry problems. Frpm basic axioms in geometry. the system developed a proof as a sequence of simple subgoals. EPAM was written to study rote learning by machine. The system had a learning and performance component where pair; of nonsense words, a stimulus-response pair, were first learned throuh Sec. 1.4 -Al and Related Fields repetitive presentations (in different orders). The performance component was then used