understander A few examples will illustrate the importance of each of these factors. Complexity of the Target Representation Suppose English sentences are being used for communication with a keyword-based data retrieval system. Then the sentence I want to read all about the last Presidential election, would need to be translated into a representation such as (SEARCH KEYWORDS = ELECTION & PRESIDENT) But now suppose that English sentences are being used to provide input to a program that records events so that it can answer a variety of questions about those events and their relationships. For example, consider the following story: Bill told Mary he would not go to the movies with her. Her feelings were hurt. Billa Mary M Bill 4 4 r > Mai 4 The result of understanding this story could be Bill <> MTRANS 2 8 [ein 7 t represented, using the conceptual dependency model that ~ e e we discussed in Chapter 10, as shown in Fig. 14.1. This Bit i Mary we representation is considerably more complex than that s for the simple query. All other things being equal, c constructing such a complex representation is more difficult than constructing a simple one since more Movies Bill Mary information must be extracted from the input sentences. happiness = 10 Extracting that information often requires the use of Mary emf additional knowledge about the world described by the sentences. Type of Mapping Recall that understanding is the process of mapping an input from its original form to a more useful one. The simplest kind of mapping to deal with is one-to-one (i.e., each different statement maps to a single target representation that is different from that arising from = Fig. 14.1 The Conceptual Dependency Representation of a Paragraph any other statement). Very few input systems are o O totally one-to-one. But as an example of an almost A + one-to-one mapping, consider the language of aw i i 3j i : A:=B+C*D > arithmetic. expressions in many programming B * Janguages. In such a language,