terleaved
planners arecomplete.
One solution to the interleaving problem was goal-regression planning, a technique in
which steps in a totally ordered plan are reordered so as to avoid conflict between subgoals.
This was introduced by Waldinger (1975) and also used by Warren s (1974) WARPLAN.
WARPLAN is also notable in that it was the first planner to be written in a logic program-
minglanguage (Prolog) andisoneofthebestexamples oftheremarkable economy thatcan
sometimes be gained withlogic programming: WARPLAN isonly 100 lines ofcode, asmall
fractionofthesizeofcomparable planners ofthetime.
The ideas underlying partial-order planning include the detection of conflicts (Tate,
1975a) and the protection of achieved conditions from interference (Sussman, 1975). The
construction of partially ordered plans (then called task networks) was pioneered by the
NOA Hplanner(Sacerdoti, 1975,1977)andby Tate s(1975b, 1977) NONLIN system.
Partial-order planning dominated the next 20 years of research, yet the first clear for-
mal exposition was TWEAK (Chapman, 1987), a planner that was simple enough to allow
proofs of completeness and intractability (NP-hardness and undecidability) of various plan-
ning problems. Chapman s work led to a straightforward description of a complete partial-
orderplanner (Mc Allesterand Rosenblitt, 1991), then tothewidely distributed implementa-
tions SNLP (Soderland and Weld, 1991) and UCPOP (Penberthy and Weld, 1992). Partial-
order planning fell out of favor in the late 1990s as faster methods emerged. Nguyen and
Kambhampati (2001) suggest that a reconsideration is merited: with accurate heuristics de-
rived from aplanning graph, their REPOP planner scales up muchbetter than GRAPHPLAN
inparallelizable domainsandiscompetitivewiththefasteststate-space planners.
The resurgence of interest in state-space planning was pioneered by Drew Mc Der-
mott s UNPO Pprogram(1996),whichwasthefirsttosuggesttheignore-delete-listheuristic,
The name UNPOP was a reaction 