m,twirlingthem,andsoon andfornavigatingwhileavoiding
obstacles. The ability to use vision for these purposes is present in the most primitive of
animal visual systems. In many cases, the visual system is minimal, in the sense that it
extracts from the available light field just the information the animal needs to inform its
behavior. Quite probably, modern vision systems evolved from early, primitive organisms
that used a photosensitive spot at one end to orient themselves toward (or away from) the
light. We saw in Section 24.4 that flies use a very simple optical flow detection system to
land on walls. A classic study, What the Frog s Eye Tells the Frog s Brain (Lettvin et al.,
1959),observesofafrogthat, Hewillstarvetodeathsurroundedbyfoodifitisnotmoving.
Hischoiceoffoodisdetermined onlybysizeandmovement. Let us consider a vision system for an automated vehicle driving on a freeway. The
tasksfacedbythedriverincludethefollowing:
964 Chapter 24. Perception
a b c
(a) (b) (c)
Figure24.26 Thestateoftheartinmultiple-viewreconstructionisnowhighlyadvanced.
This figureoutlines a system builtby Michael Goesele and colleaguesfrom the University
of Washington, TU Darmstadt, and Microsoft Research. Froma collectionof picturesof a
monumenttakenbyalargecommunityofusersandpostedonthe Internet(a),theirsystem
candeterminetheviewingdirectionsforthosepictures,shownbythesmallblackpyramids
in(b)andacomprehensive3Dreconstructionshownin(c).
1. Lateral control ensure that the vehicle remains securely within its lane or changes
lanessmoothlywhenrequired.
2. Longitudinal control ensure thatthereisasafedistancetothevehicleinfront.
3. Obstacleavoidance monitorvehiclesinneighboringlanesandbepreparedforevasive
maneuversifoneofthemdecidestochangelanes.
The problem for the driver is to generate appropriate steering, acceleration, and braking ac-
tionstobestaccomplish thesetasks.
Forlateralcontrol,oneneedstomaintainarepresentation ofthepositionandorientation
ofthecarrelativetothelane. Wecanuseedge-