s a pair of strictly positive reals K and KY, such that as t approaches 1, the function fis bounded below by K and bounded above by KT , Raiman defines different degrees of equality at different scales of magnitude, as follows. 1. Id: p p Two quantities are equal on the d scale (only) if they are the same. 2. Close: p p x (1 Small) Two quantities are equal on the Close scale if they differ by a factor close to 1. If p and q are Close then (p q) would be negligible compared to either of them. 3. Comparable: pp Rough Two quantities are equal on the Comparable scale if one can be obtained by multiplying the other with Rough. f p and q are Comparable and if p is negligible with respect to some f then q would also be negligible with respect to t. 4. Sign: pp x Kr Two quantities are equal on the Sign scale if they have the same sign. Equality on a finer scale implies equality on a coarser scale. For example, if two coarse values are equal on the Close scale then they are also equal on the Comparable scale. The degree of equality in the Close is dependent upon the value of p. One could define an alternative measure called Near such that (p q) Small. The relation Negligible, denoted , can now be defined on a given scale Scale as, (Scale(p) Seale(q) Scale(q)) (Seale(p) Scale(q)) On the Close scale, this translates to, (p qx Small) (Scale(p) Scale(q)) We can now express the problem of the two bodies moving towards each other with comparable velocities as follows. Let t stand for the total momentum of the two body system, and V a velocity comparable to both Vbig) and V small). Sign(t) My Vi(big) My nanV (small) Close(V,(big)) Close(V) Close(V,(small)) Close(V) Mgnaut Mpig X Small small As discussed earlier, one has to be careful in using the approximate equality for solving sets of equations. Raiman converts the above relations into the following, Oc Sign(t) a MyigVi(big) uy Msmali V(small) 0 c -Close(V) Close(V,(big)) 0c Close(V) Close(V,(small)) 0C M ait Mpig x Small The law