eristics can be described and labeled for subsequent interpretation. This process requires that the outlines or boundaries, vertices, and surfaces of the objects he described in some way. It should be noted, however, that a description for a region can be based on a twoor three-dimensional image interpretation. Initially, we focus on the two-dimensional interpretation. Typically, a region description will include attributes related jo size, shape, mnd genera' appearance. For example some or all of the following features might included. Region area Contour length (perimeter) and orientation Location of the center of alas Minimum bounding rectangle Compactness (area divided by perimeter squared) Fitted sc.trer matrix of pixels s Number and characteri tics of holes or internal occlusions Minimum bounding rectangle Degree and type of texture Average intensity (Or average intensities of base colors) Type of boundary serments (sh:rp, iiziy, and Sc on) and their Iocon Boundary contrast Chain code (described below) Shape classification number (task specific) Position and types of vertices (number of adjoining segments) Some of the above features are illustrated in Figure 14 16. Sec. 14.4 Describing and Labeling Objects 305 area, average intensity perimeter length scatter matrix of pixels center of mass number of holes minimum bounding rectangle Figure 14.16 Descriptive features for a region. In addition to these characteristics, the relationships between regions may also be important, particularly adjacent regions. Relations between regions can include their relative positions and Orientations, distances betwee.n boundaries, intervening regions, relative intensities or contrasts in color, degree of abutment, and degree of connectivity or concentration. When the image domain is known, domain or task specific features may also be useful.. Next, we examine some of the definitions and methods used for region descriptions. Des ribing Boundaries Boundaries can be described as lin