rize uncertainty. Every approach requires its own representation and reasoning schemes. Human beings deal with uncertainty in a variety of ways. Apart from first principles mechanisms to reason with uncertain knowledge described in this chapter, we also exploit experience and knowledge gleaned from other sources. We do not always solve the current problem, but often rely on memory to produce a solution. Some of these techniques have been discussed in earlier chapters. Even such approaches require issues in representation and reasoning (principally retrieval) to be addressed. The ontological and epistemological problems associated with knowledge representation are the key to artificial intelligence. How does an agent structure knowledge and how does it acquire the knowledge? In the next chapter, we look at one of the last frontiers of Al research machine learning. In the end, the agent has to acquire knowledge on its own, from its experiences, from being taught, by observing and generalizing. The ability to augment its knowledge base would be a key to building an autonomous, intelligent agent. ) : e a Exercises 1. Given the knowledge base below, KB: Wx Vy (Friend(x,y) D Friend(y,x)) Vx Vy (Friend(x,y) A 7Isolated(y) Chat (x,y)) Friend(aditi, shubhagata), Friend(aditi, jennifer), (Isolated(jennifer) v Isolated (shubhagata) ) what is the answer to the query dx(Chat(aditi, x)) using (a) the closed world assumption, and (b) Circ KB; Isolated ? What about Chat(aditi,shubhagata) V Chat(aditi, jennifer)? 2. Given the following default theory, Friend(aditi, shubhgata), Friend(aditi, jennifer), (Isolated (jennifer) v Isolated (shubha) DB, Friend(aditi,shubha): 7Isolated(aditi)aaIsolated(shubha) Chat (aditi, shubha) Friend(aditi, jennifer): Isolated(aditi) Isolated (jennifer) Chat (aditi, jennifer) Construct all extensions of the default theory. What conclusions about the Chat predicate can be drawn? 3. Generate all the expansions of the following knowledge base and identify t