 by the same set of k attributes A,. I = I .....k. Each attribute may be regardod Sec. 10.7 The RETE Matching Algorithm 205 as a fuzzy set, and a metric similar to equation 10.6 may then be used to match compare the two objects based on their attribute memberships. If the attribute', represent linguistic variables such as height. weight, facialappearance. color ot-eves. and type-of-hair, each variable may be assigned a limited number 01 values. For example, a reasonable assignment for height would he the integers 10 to 96 corresponding to height in 'inches. Eye colors could he assigned brown, black, blue. hazel, and so on An object description of tall, slim, pretty. blue eyed, blonde s ill have characteristic function values for the b ye attributes of u.,(o1 ) and u (o) for objects ol and o respectively A measure of fuzzy similarity between the two objects can then he defined as .1)( i .0,) = I (I - (I). where (I - - - u4,(o))2j (109) I, [, For an accurate match, the quantity d in equation 10.9 should be computed for several different values of each linguistic 'variable (very short, short, medium, tall, and very tall) and the average taken This will be done at the expense of much computation. however. Note that it is always possible to define the attribute domains as discrete finite approximations to any domain as we have done for height. and the characteristic values for tall might be 10) ... u,1(50)= 0 = 0.5 The number (k) of attributes and domain values chosen for each attribute will depend on the specific Furthermore, it should be noted that the characteristic values will be subjectise ones Even so. selecting only a few relevant attributes and assigning a modest number of values for each domain can give a good approximation to fuzzy likenesses 10.7 THE RETE MATCHING ALGORITHM Production l Or rule-based) systems are described in Chapter IS. They are popular architectures for evert s)stenls. A typical system will contain a Knowledge Base which contains structures 