te some of these concepts, consider the following examples: a. P & P is inconsistent and P V P is valid since the first is false under every interpretation and the second is true under every interpretation. b. From the two wffs CIEVERIbj II) and Vx CLEVER(x) SUCCEED(x) we can show that SUCCEED(bill) is a logical consequence. Thus, assume that both CLEVER(bill) and Y, CLEVER(x) - SUCCEED(x) are true under an interpretation. Then CLEVER(bill) -. SUCCEED(bill) is certainly true since the wif was assumed to be true for all x, including x = bill. But, - CLEVER(bill) -. SUCCEED(bill) 'CLEVER(bill) V SIJCCEED(bi II) are equivalent and, since CLEVER(bill) is true, -CLEVER(bill) is false and, therefore, SUCCEED(bill) must be true. Thus, we conclude SUCCEED- (bill) is a logical consequence of CLEVER(bill) and Yx CLEVERIx) - SUCCEED(,). Suppose the w IT F x J contains the variable x. We say x is bound if it follows or is within the scope of a quantifier naming the variable. If a variable is not bound, it is said to be free. For example, in the expression Yx (P(x) -. Q(x,y)). . is bound, but y is free since every occurrence of x follows the quantifier and v is not within the scope of any quantifier. Clearly, an expression can be evaluated only when all the variables in that expression are bound. Therefore, we shall require that all wffs contain only bound variables. We will also call such expressions a sentence. We conclude this section with a few more definitions. Given wffs F, F. 62 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 each possibly consisting of the disjunction of literals only, we say F1 & F & & F,, is in conjunctive norm(d Jor Pn (CNF). On the other hand if each F,, i I .....n consists only of the conjunction of literals. we say F1 V F V V b,, is in disjunctive norma/form (DN}). For example, the wi Ts (-P V Q V R) & (-P V Q) & R and (F' & Q & R) V (Q & R) V P are in conjunctive and disjunctive normal forms respectively. It can be shown that an Y wft can he transti'riiied int