centrate on the problem of deciding to which constituent the prepositional phrase should be attached and of assigning a meaning to the preposition with. We have two main choices: either the phrase attaches to the action of making the cake and with indicates the instrument relation, or the prepositional phrase attaches to the noun phrase describing the dessert that was made, in which case with describes an additional component of the dessert. The first two sentences are relatively straightforward if we imagine that our knowledge base contains the following facts: Foods can be components of other foods. Mixers are used to make many kinds of desserts. But now consider the third sentence. A giant tower is neither a food nor a mixer. So it is not a likely candidate for either role. What is required here is the much more specific (and culturally dependent) fact that e Wedding cakes often have towers and statues and bridges and flowers on them. The highly specific nature of this knowledge is illustrated by the fact that the last of these sentences does not make much sense to us since we can find no appropriate role for the tower, either as part of a pie or as an instrument used during pie making. Another use for knowledge is to enable the system to accept meanings that it has not been explicitly told about. Consider the following sentences as examples: 1. Sue likes to read Joyce. 2. Washington backed out of the summit talks. 3. The stranded explorer ate squirrels. Suppose our system has only the following meanings for the words Joyce, Washington, and squirrel (actually we give only the relevant parts of the meanings): 1, Joyce instance: Author; last-name: Joyce 2. Washington instance. City; name: Washington 3. squirrel isa; Rodent;... But suppose that we also have only the following meanings for the verbs in these sentences: 1. read isa: Mental-Event; object: must be <printed-material> 2. back out isa: Mental-Event; agent: must be <animate-entity> 3. eat isa; Ingestion-Eve