44 Artificial Intelligence HORE NR NTRED SORE TPN IEA: AN AS The significance of these categories of production systems lies in the relationship between the categories and appropriate implementation strategies. But before discussing that relationship, it may be helpful to make the meanings of the definitions clearer by showing how they relate to specific problems. Thus we arrive at the second question above, which asked whether there is an interesting relationship between classes of production systems and classes of problems. For any solvable problem, there exist an infinite number of production systems that describe ways to find solutions. Some will be more natural or efficient than others. Any problem that can be solved by any production system can de solved by a commutative one (our most restricted class), but the commutative one may be so unwieldy as to be practically useless. It may use individual states to represent entire sequences of applications of rules of a simpler, noncommutative system. So in a formal sense, there is ro relationship between kinds of problems and kinds of production systems since all problems can be solved by all kinds of systems. But in a practical sense. there definitely is such a relationship between kinds of problems and the kinds of systems that lend themselves naturally to describing those problems, To see this, let us look at a few examples. Fig. 2.17 shows the four categories of production systems produced by the two dichotomies, monotonic versus nonmonotonic and partially commutative versus | Monotonic Nonmonotonic Partially i Theorem proving Robot navigation commutative | Not partially |_ commutative Chemical ses Bridge Fig. 2.17 The Four Categories of Production Systems nonpartially commutative, along with some problems that can naturally be solved by each type of system. The upper left corner represents commutative systems. Partially commutative, monotonic production systems are useful for solving ignwrable problems. This is 