eous features in pixel r pieces of edges discovered during the low-level processing. This level requires that pieces of edges be combined into contiguous contours which form the outline of objects, partitioning the image into coherent regions, developing models of the segmented objects, and then assigning labels which characterize the object regions. One way to begin defining a set of objects is to draw a silhouette or sketch of their outlines. Such a sketch has been called the raw primal sketch by Man (1982). It requires connecting up pieces of edges which have a high likelihood o: forming a continuous boundary. For example, the problem is to decide whethe: two edge pieces such as 300 Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 (edge (location 21 103) (edge (location 18 98) (intensity 0.8) (intensity 0.6) (direction 46)) (direction 41 should be connected. This general process of forming contours from pieces of edges is called segmentation Graphical Edge Finding Graphical methods can be used to link up pieces of edges One approach is to use a minimum spanning tree (MST). Starting at any cluster of pixels known to be part of an edge, this method performs a search in the neighborhood of the cluster for graupings with similar feature values. Each such grouping corresponds to a node in an edge tree. When a number of such nodes have been found they are Connected using the MST algorithm. An MST is found by connecting an arc between the first node selected and its closest neighbor node and labeling the two nodes accordingly. Neighborhoods of both connected nodes are then searched. Any node found closest to either of the two connected nodes (below some threshold distance) is then used to form the next branch in the tree. A second arc is constructed between the newly found node and the closest connected node, again labeling the new node. This process is repeated until all nodes having are distances less than some value (such as a function of the average arc distances) have been conn