anomaly described in Fig. 13.5. A good plan for the solution of this problem is the following: 1, Begin work on the goal ON(A, B) by clearing A, thus putting C on the table. 2. Achieve the goal ON(B, C) by stacking B on C. 3. Complete the goal ON(A, B) by stacking A on B. This section explores some heuristics and algorithms for tackling nonlinear problems such as this one. Many ideas about nonlinear planning were present in HACKER [Sussman, 1975], an automatic programming system. The first true nonlinear planner, though, was NOAH [Sacerdoti, 1975]. NOAH was further improved upon by the NONLIN program [Tate, 1977]. The goal stack algorithm of STRIPS was transformed into a goal set algorithm by Nilsson [1980]. Subsequent planning systems, such as MOLGEN [Stefik, 198 1b] and TWEAK [Chapman, 1987], used constraint posting as a central technique. The idea of constraint posting is to build up a plan by incrementally hypothesizing operators, partial orderings between operators, and bindings of variables within operators. At any given time in the problem-solving Process, we may have a set of useful operators but perhaps no clear idea of how those operators should be ordered with respect to each other. A solution is a partially ordered, partially instantiated set of operators; to generate an actual plan, we convert the partial order into any of a number of total orders. Figure 13.7 shows the difference between the constraint posting method and the planning methods discussed in earlier sections. We now examine several operations for nonlinear planning in a constraint-posting environment, although many of the operations themselves predate the use of the technique in planning. Planning 263 State Space Search ml a Moves in the space: oo * Modify world state via operator mn Model of time: no B Depth of node in search space im Plan stored in: A * Series of state transitions Constraint Posting Search Move in the space: Pla mn Add operators ofp Order operators Bind variabls Plang Of