 few as 50 or as man as several thousand rules may be required in an expert system), a working memory. and a rule interpreter or inference engine. The interpreter inspects the LI-IS of each rule in the KB until one is found which matches the contents of working nicr11or' This causes the rule to be actvated or to 'ljre" in liich case the content', of working memory are replaced by the HS of the rule. Flic process continue hs scanning the next rules in sequence or restarting at the beginning of the kno. edge base. 76 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 INTERNAL FORM RU(.E047 Premise: ((Sand (same cntxt site blood) (notdefinite contxt ident) (same cntxt morph rod) (same cntxt burn I)) Action: (conclude crttxt ident pseudonomas 0.4)) ENGLISH TRANSLATION If: 1) The Site of the culture is blood, and 2)The identity of the organism is not known with certainty, and 3)The stain of the organism is gramneg, and 4) The morphology of the organism is rod, and 5)The patient has been seriously burned THEN: There is weakly suggestive evidence (0.4) that the identity of the organism is pseudonomas. Figure 4.1 A rule from the MYCIN system. Each rule represents a chunk of knowledge as a conditional statement, and each invocation of the rules as a sequence of actions. This is essentially an inference process using the chain rule as described in Section 4.2. Although there is no established syntax for rule-based systems, the most commonly used form permits a LUS consisting of a conjunction of several conditions and a single RHS action term. An example of a rule used in the MYCINJ3 expert system (Shortliffe, 176) is illustrated in Figure 4. I. In RULE047. the quantity 0.4 is known as a confidence factor (CF). Confidence factors range from - 1.0 (complete disbelief) to 1.0 (certain belief). They provide a measure of the experts' confidence that a rule is applicable or holds when the conditions in the LI-IS have all been satisfied. We will see further examples of rules and confidence factors 