h subsequence. It returns the
wholetable, P, in whichan entry P X, start, len is the probabilityofthe mostprobable
X of lengthlen starting atposition start. If thereis no X of thatsize atthatlocation, the
probabilityis0.
equivalent to Autumnabandons autumn.) With E thesentence hasfourparses:
0 S S NP Fallleaves fall and S NP springleaves spring S S NP Fallleaves fall and S spring VP leavesspring S S Fall VP leavesfall and S NP springleaves spring S S Fall VP leavesfall and S spring VP leavesspring .
Ifwehadctwo-ways-ambiguous conjoined subsentences, wewouldhave2c waysofchoos-
ing parses forthe subsentences.3 How does the CYK algorithm process these 2c parse trees
in O(c3) time? The answer is that it doesn t examine all the parse trees; all it has to do is
compute the probability of the most probable tree. The subtrees are all represented in the P
table,andwithalittleworkwecouldenumeratethemall(inexponentialtime),butthebeauty
ofthe CY Kalgorithm isthatwedon thavetoenumeratethemunlesswewantto.
Inpracticeweareusuallynotinterestedinallparses;justthebestoneorbestfew. Think
of the CYK algorithm as defining the complete state space defined by the apply grammar rule operator. It is possible to search just part of this space using A search. Each state
in this space is a list of items (words or categories), as shown in the bottom-up parse table
(Figure 23.4). The start state is a list of words, and a goal state is the single item S. The
3 Therealsowouldbe O(c!)ambiguityinthewaythecomponentsconjoin forexample,(X and(Y and Z))
versus((Xand Y)and Z).Butthatisanotherstory,onetoldwellby Churchand Patil(1982).
Section23.2. Syntactic Analysis(Parsing) 895 S NP-SBJ-2Hereyes VPwere VPglazed NP -2 SBAR-AD Vasif S NP-SB Jshe VPdidn t VP VPhear NP -1 or VP ADV Peven see NP -1 NP-1him . Figure23.6 Annotatedtree forthe sentence Hereyeswere glazedasif she didn thear
orevensee him. fromthe Penn Treebank. Notethatinthisgrammarthereisadistinction
betweenanobjectnounphrase(NP)andasubjectnounphr