rueposterior
usingaconstantnumberofsamples. Undercertainassumptions inparticular, thattheprob-
abilities in the transition and sensor models are strictly greater than 0 and less than 1 it is
possible to prove that the approximation maintains bounded error with high probability. On
the practical side, the range of applications has grown to include many fields of science and
engineering; somereferences aregivenattheendofthechapter.
15.6 KEEPING TRACK OF MANY OBJECTS
The preceding sections have considered without mentioning it state estimation problems
involving a single object. In this section, we see what happens when two or more objects
generate the observations. What makes this case different from plain old state estimation is
that there is now thepossibility of uncertainty about which object generated which observa-
tion. Thisistheidentityuncertaintyproblemof Section14.6.3(page544),nowviewedina
temporal context. Inthecontrol theory literature, this is the dataassociation problem that
DATAASSOCIATION
is,theproblem ofassociating observation datawiththeobjectsthatgenerated them.
600 Chapter 15. Probabilistic Reasoning over Time
1 5 1 5
2 4 2 4
3 3
2 2
4 4
1 3 1 3
5 5
(a) (b)
track termination
1 5 1 5
2 4 2 4
3 3
detection
failure
2 2
4 4
1 3 1 3
track
5 false alarm initiation 5
(c) (d)
Figure15.19 (a)Observationsmadeofobjectlocationsin2Dspaceoverfivetimesteps.
Eachobservationislabeledwiththetimestepbutdoesnotidentifytheobjectthatproduced
it. (b c) Possible hypothesesabout the underlyingobject tracks. (d) A hypothesisfor the
caseinwhichfalsealarms,detectionfailures,andtrackinitiation terminationarepossible.
The data association problem was studied originally in the context of radar tracking,
wherereflectedpulsesaredetectedatfixedtimeintervalsbyarotatingradarantenna. Ateach
timestep,multipleblipsmayappearonthescreen,butthereisnodirectobservationofwhich
blips at timet belong to which blips at timet 1. Figure 15.19(a) shows a simple example
with two blips pertime step fo