 orequal to C ,acondition thatistrueifallstepcostsexceedsomefinite(cid:2)andifbisfinite. Notice that A expands no nodes with f(n) C for example, Timisoara is not
expanded in Figure 3.24 even though it is a child of the root. Wesay that the subtree below
98 Chapter 3. Solving Problemsby Searching
Timisoaraispruned;becauseh isadmissible,thealgorithmcansafelyignorethissubtree
PRUNING SLD
while still guaranteeing optimality. The concept of pruning eliminating possibilities from
consideration withouthavingtoexaminethem isimportant formanyareasof AI.
One final observation is that among optimal algorithms of this type algorithms that extend search paths from the root and use the same heuristic information A is optimally
OPTIMALLY efficient for any given consistent heuristic. That is, no other optimal algorithm is guaran-
EFFICIENT teedtoexpand fewernodes than A (except possibly through tie-breaking amongnodeswith f(n) C ). This is because any algorithm that does not expand all nodes with f(n) C
runstheriskofmissingtheoptimalsolution. That A search iscomplete, optimal, andoptimally efficientamongallsuchalgorithms israthersatisfying. Unfortunately, itdoesnotmeanthat A istheanswertoalloursearching
needs. The catch is that, for most problems, the number of states within the goal contour
search space is still exponential in the length of the solution. The details of the analysis are
beyondthescopeofthisbook,butthebasicresultsareasfollows. Forproblemswithconstant
stepcosts, thegrowthinruntimeasafunction oftheoptimal solution depthdisanalyzed in
terms of the the absolute error or the relative error of the heuristic. The absolute error is
ABSOLUTEERROR
defined as h h, where h is the actual cost of getting from the root to the goal, and
RELATIVEERROR
therelativeerrorisdefinedas (cid:2) (h h) h .
The complexity results depend very strongly on the assumptions made about the state
space. The simplest model studied is a state space that has a single goal and is essentially a
tree with 