 PropositionalResolution(S : premises in clause forn 1 while TRUE 2 do CHOOSE a new pair of clauses C, and C, 3 if no new pair exists 4 then return FAIL 5 R Resolvent(C,, Cz) if R 7 then return FALSE 8 else S SU RB .9 The resolution method picks two clauses and generates a resolvent till it generates the empty clause. If that happens it returr e value of the input. If it cannot pick two clauses it returns fail . The key to efficiency is making the right choice while choosing the rve that the method only returns the valuation false when it can derive the empty clause. If it fail and not true . This is because it can only say that it has not been able to show the formula to s not mean that the formula is true. To take a simple example given the set P, Q we cannot say truth value. the key to using the resolution method is to apply it to formulas that are unsatisfiable. The task in taken up is to test whether the consequent logically follows from the premises. Given a set of prerr y and the desired goal 8, we want to determine if the formula, ((a, A ag A... A ap) D B) ut since the resolution method can only test for unsatisfiability, we can try the negation of the above a((ay A ag A... A ap) D B) onvert this into CNF, the form that is required by the resolution method. (ay A ag A... A ap) D B) A(A(ay A ag A... A ap) V B) ((a, A ag A... A ap) A 7B) ((a'ya'g A... A a y) A 78 ) nerate the input for the resolution method we simply need to negate the goal and add it to the set of need to convert each of the premises and the negated goal into the clause (CNF) form denoted by ne of the transformation. of by resolution method is a proof by contradiction. We start with the set of premises, negate the another clause, and show that it leads to a contradiction (something that is false or not possible). illustrate the tAsHHUd- WHF the example we had seen earlier. We need to show that following is true. (PA Q) A(PD R) A (RA 8) DTA (7QV S) A (AUA AV) DT) olution proof is often better 