ed in the previous section. First, we would need an accu-
rate model of the terrain. The configuration space of a robot with six legs, each of which
is driven by two independent motors, totals eighteen dimensions (twelve dimensions for the
configuration of the legs, and six for the location and orientation of the robot relative to its
environment). Evenifourcomputerswerefastenoughtofindpathsinsuchhigh-dimensional
spaces, we would have to worry about nasty effects such as the robot sliding down a slope.
Because of such stochastic effects, a single path through configuration space would almost
certainly be too brittle, and even a PID controller might not be able to cope with such con-
tingencies. Inother words, generating motion behavior deliberately issimply too complex a
problem forpresent-day robotmotionplanning algorithms.
Unfortunately, the subsumption architecture has its own problems. First, the AFS Ms
are driven by raw sensor input, an arrangement that works if the sensor data is reliable and
containsallnecessary informationfordecisionmaking,butfailsifsensordatahastobeinte-
gratedinnontrivialwaysovertime. Subsumption-stylecontrollershavethereforemostlybeen
appliedtosimpletasks,suchasfollowingawallormovingtowardsvisiblelightsources. Sec-
ond,thelackofdeliberationmakesitdifficulttochangethetaskoftherobot. Asubsumption-
style robot usually does just one task, and it has no notion of how to modify its controls to
accommodate different goals (just like the dung beetle on page 39). Finally, subsumption-
stylecontrollers tendtobedifficulttounderstand. Inpractice, theintricateinterplaybetween
dozens of interacting AFS Ms (and the environment) is beyond what most human program-
mers can comprehend. For all these reasons, the subsumption architecture is rarely used in
robotics, despite its great historical importance. However, it has had an influence on other
architectures, andonindividual components ofsomearchitectures.
25.7.2 Three-layer architecture
Hybrid architectu