utthenewstatevariables.
Consider,forexample,theproblemoftrackingarobotwanderingrandomlyonthe X Y
plane. Onemightpropose thattheposition andvelocityarea sufficientsetofstatevariables:
onecansimplyuse Newton slawstocalculatethenewposition,andthevelocitymaychange
unpredictably. Iftherobotisbattery-powered,however,thenbatteryexhaustionwouldtendto
haveasystematiceffectonthechangeinvelocity. Becausethisinturndependsonhowmuch
powerwasused byallprevious maneuvers, the Markov property isviolated. Wecan restore
the Markovproperty byincluding thechargelevel Battery asoneofthestatevariables that
t
make up X . This helps in predicting the motion of the robot, but in turn requires a model
t
for predicting Battery t from Battery t 1 and the velocity. In some cases, that can be done
reliably, but more often we findthat error accumulates overtime. In that case, accuracy can
beimprovedbyaddinganewsensorforthebatterylevel.
15.2 INFERENCE IN TEMPORAL MODELS
Havingsetupthestructureofagenerictemporalmodel,wecanformulatethebasicinference
tasksthatmustbesolved: Filtering: This is the task of computing the belief state the posterior distribution
FILTERING
over the most recent state given all evidence to date. Filtering2 is also called state
BELIEFSTATE
estimation. Inourexample,wewishtocompute P(X e ). Intheumbrellaexample,
STATEESTIMATION t 1:t
this would mean computing the probability of rain today, given all the observations of
the umbrella carrier made so far. Filtering is what a rational agent does to keep track
of the current state so that rational decisions can be made. It turns out that an almost
identicalcalculation providesthelikelihood oftheevidence sequence, P(e ).
1:t Prediction: Thisisthetaskofcomputingtheposteriordistributionoverthefuturestate,
PREDICTION
givenall evidence todate. Thatis, wewishtocompute P(X e )forsome k 0.
t k 1:t
Inthe umbrella example, thismight meancomputing theprobability ofrainthree days
fromnow,givenalltheobservationstodate. Predictionisusefulforevaluat