 to share information, and in particular to enable programs to share information in a meaningful manner across the web. It is a representation scheme, and does not address the issues of reasoning in itself. Since RDF is designed to share information generated by diverse people one cannot expect the information available on the web to conform to a fixed schema. Anyone creating an information resource can add more data. For example a car manufacturer s site may give information about a particular car (resource), while a group of car aficionados may add their opinions as properties and their values about the same resource (on their own site). To share information, the different sites may need to use a common vocabulary and provide secure XML endpoints to other users. One way to do this would be for different sites to use a same base ontology to define a vocabulary of terms and relations between terms. We discuss ontologies in more detail in Chapter 14. US at? Gre 6dllects all the properties about a particular resource together into a collection as illustrated in Figure 13.1. The figure depicts, bow. typical site providing music may organize information about the musical items in ifs collection. All the properties and their values are collected together in one Description, though it is not necessary to do so. Obviously keeping such information together would be useful from a computational point of view, and we will explore this idea more in the next chapter. The statements in Figure 13.1 are as follows. Line 1 declares the XML version being used. XML documents can be visualized as tree structures. Line 2 is called the root element of the document and says that everything up till the closing element rdf:RDF is part of the document. Observe that the element in line 2 extends to lines 3 and 4, after which the closing bracket occurs. Line 3 says that the short form rdf maybe used to refer to the namespace http: www.w3.org 1999 02 22-rdf-syntax-ns An example of a word from t