and derivational systems? 20.8. Define operationality as it applies to explanation-based learning and give an example of it as applied to some task. 20.10. Explain why each of the four kinds of information (concept definition, positive training example, domain theory, and operational criteria) is needed in EBL. 20.11. If the end table in the Safe-to-Stack example had not been given a default weight value, what additional steps would be required in the explanation to complete the tree structure? 20.12. What is the purpose of the regression process in EBL? 20.13. Work out a complete explanation for the concept safe to cross the street. This requires domain theory about traffic lights, and traffic, a positive example of a safe crossing. and operational criteria. 20.14. The learning methods described in Part V have mostly been single paradigm methods. yet we undoubtedly use combined learning for much of our knowledge learning. Describe how analogical learning could be combined with EBL as well as inductive learning to provide a more comprehensive form of learning.

=== END OF patterson-clean.txt ===



=== START OF rich-knight-clean.txt ===

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE Third Edition ABOUT THE AUTHORS Elaine Rich received her Ph D in Computer Science from Carnegie-Melion in 1979 after which she served as a faculty at the Department of Computer Science, University of Texas. Later, she joined the Microelectronic and Computing Technology Corporation (MCC) to become the Director of the Artificial Intelligence Lab. In 1998, Dr Rich returned to the CS department at the University of Texas at Austin as a Senior Lecturer and has been teaching Automata Theory, Artificial Intelligence and Natural Language Processing. In 1991, Dr Rich was elected a Fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence. Dr Rich has also published a book entitled, Automata, Computability and Complexity: Theory and Applications in 2007. Kevin Knight received his B.A. in Co