probability theory.
The resurgence of probability depended mainly on Pearl s development of Bayesian
networksasamethodforrepresentingandusingconditional independence information. This
resurgence did not comewithout afight; Peter Cheeseman s (1985) pugnacious In Defense
of Probability andhislaterarticle An Inquiry into Computer Understanding (Cheeseman,
1988, with commentaries) give something of the flavor of the debate. Eugene Charniak
helped present the ideas to AI researchers with a popular article, Bayesian networks with-
out tears 11 (1991), and book (1993). The book by Dean and Wellman (1991) also helped
introduce Bayesiannetworksto AIresearchers. Oneoftheprincipalphilosophicalobjections
ofthelogicists wasthat thenumerical calculations thatprobability theory wasthought tore-
quirewerenotapparenttointrospection andpresumedanunrealistic levelofprecisioninour
uncertain knowledge. The development of qualitative probabilistic networks (Wellman,
1990a) provided a purely qualitative abstraction of Bayesian networks, using the notion of
positive and negative influences between variables. Wellman shows that in manycases such
information is sufficient for optimal decision making without the need for the precise spec-
ification of probability values. Goldszmidt and Pearl (1996) take a similar approach. Work
by Adnan Darwiche and Matt Ginsberg (1992) extracts the basic properties of conditioning
andevidencecombinationfromprobability theoryandshows thattheycanalsobeappliedin
logicalanddefaultreasoning. Often,programsspeaklouderthanwords,andthereadyavail-
11 Thetitleoftheoriginalversionofthearticlewas Pearlforswine. 558 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
abilityofhigh-quality softwaresuchasthe Bayes Nettoolkit(Murphy,2001)accelerated the
adoption ofthetechnology.
Themostimportantsinglepublicationinthegrowthof Bayesiannetworkswasundoubt-
edly the text Probabilistic Reasoning in Intelligent Systems (Pearl, 1988). Several excellent
texts (Lauritzen, 1996; Jensen, 2001; Korb an