otionblur. Figurefrom Ramananetal.(2007)(cid:2)c IEEE.
There are several ways to infer a good appearance model. We regard the video as a
large stack of pictures of the person we wish to track. We can exploit this stack by looking
for appearance models that explain many of the pictures. This would work by detecting
bodysegmentsineachframe,usingthefactthatsegmentshaveroughly paralleledges. Such
detectors are not particularly reliable, but the segments we want to find are special. They
will appear at least once in most of the frames of video; such segments can be found by
clustering the detector responses. It is best to start with the torso, because it is big and
because torso detectors tend to be reliable. Once we have a torso appearance model, upper
leg segments should appear near the torso, and so on. This reasoning yields an appearance
model, but it can be unreliable if people appear against a near-fixed background where the
segment detector generates lots of false positives. An alternative is to estimate appearance
formanyoftheframesofvideobyrepeatedlyreestimatingconfigurationandappearance; we
then see if one appearance model explains manyframes. Another alternative, which isquite
Section24.6. Using Vision 961
Figure 24.25 Some complex human actions produce consistent patterns of appearance
andmotion.Forexample,drinkinginvolvesmovementsofthehandinfrontoftheface. The
firstthreeimagesarecorrectdetectionsofdrinking;thefourthisafalse-positive(thecookis
lookingintothecoffeepot,butnotdrinkingfromit). Figurefrom Laptevand Perez(2007)
(cid:2)c IEEE.
reliableinpractice,istoapplyadetectorforafixedbodyconfigurationtoalloftheframes. A
goodchoiceofconfiguration isonethatiseasytodetectreliably, andwherethereisastrong
chance theperson willappearinthat configuration even inashort sequence (lateral walking
isagoodchoice). Wetunethedetector tohavealowfalsepositive rate,soweknowwhenit
responds that we have found a real person; and because wehave localized their torso, arms,
legs,and