ith the description domains noted In 2. above. 5. What clustering algorithms can best meet the criteria in 2 within acceptable time and space complexity bounds By now questions such as these should be familiar. They are by no means trivial, bill they must be addressed when designing a system. They depend on many complex factors for which the tools of earlier chapters become essential. These problems have been addressed elsewhere; therefore, we focus our attention here on the clustering process. The clustering process must be performed with a limited set of observations. and checking all possible object groupings for patterns is not feasible except with a small number of objects. This is due to the combinatorial explosion which results in arranging n objects into an unknown number m of clusters.' Consequently. methods which examine only the more promising groupings must be used. Establishing such groupings requires the use of some measure of similarity, association, or degree of fit among a set of objects. When the attribute values are real valued, cluster groupings can sometimes be found with the use of point-to-point or point-to-set distances, probability measures (like using the covariance matrix between two populations), scatter matrices, the sum of squared error distance between objects, or other means (see Chapter 10). In these cases, an object is clustered in class Cif its proximity to other members of C, is within some threshold or limiting value. Many clustering algorithms have been proposed for different tasks. On of the most popular algorithms developed at the Stanford Research Institute by G. H. Ball and D. J. Hall (Anderberg. 1973) is known as the ISODATA method. This method requires that the number of clusters ni be specified, and threshold values t,. r,, and r3 be given or determined for use in splitting, merging. or discarding 'The number of ways in which n objects can be arranged into m groups is an cxponcnt.i I quantity. - (T) t )" When m is unknown