 We could of course simply translate the statements directly with the adjectives and the-yerbsderming the predicates as follows. Red(Ball22) Heavy(Ball43) LongerThan(Pencil32, Pen67) Height(Tree345, 5 feet) Eat(Subun11, Chocolate23, Quickly, Past perfect) Duration(Train journey56, Mysore34, 3 hours, Past perfect) But this would be rather ad hoc, and not conducive to building and sharing large amounts of knowledge. In addition there is a problem trying to define the semantics of he above sentences, since the predicates have all kinds of arguments. Properties like colour, weight, height and length can be expressed in various ways. The choice of adjectives as predicates raises the question of what the predicates mean. We have seen earlier that predicates like Man and Human can be used to define categories of objects. Thus, Man(x) stands for the set of objects that are instances of men' . Does the predicate Red(x) mean something similar? A similar question might be raised about the predicates Mortal, and Bright we used earlier. Obviously the relation between the concept of (being) a Man and the individual Socrates, is not quite the same as the relation between our concept of being red and the individual ball. The English language distinguishes between the two relations by employing different grammatical structures, The teacher is a man vis a vis The ball is red . The presence of the article a identifies man as a noun, while its absence identifies red as an adjective. We see red as a property of the ball, while we see Socrates as being an instance of a class called Man. Is Red a class too? In a way we could say that our notion of redness comes from all the red coloured objects we have seen, but we cannot say that the ball is an instance of red . Another possibility is to code it, like one might in RDF, as, Colour(Ball22, red) Now we are saying Colour is a property (or predicate) that describes the subject Ball22 and its value is a literal named red . This is a little bet