 smart house needs an efficient burglar detection and alarm system. Can you model these using AIS concepts? 2. Many events can be looked upon as a defence mechanism. For instance the simple fact that you can balance on two legs is a mechanism to defend (or prevent) your centre of gravity from moving away from a stable point. Self preservation can be viewed, likewise, as the capability to defend your body. At every stage your actions (be it moving, talking, thinking, ...) are all measures taken to make you feel stable (comfortable). With this in mind try modelling the following into an AIS based system: 494 Artificial Intelligence (i) Riding a cycle (ii) Writing characters on a cursive writing book. (iii} Spam detection and elimination (iv) A search engine that learns to cater to your needs. GLOSSARY OF BIOLOGICAL TERMS USED 10. 11. 12. 13. 14, 15. ane S UGE LA TSES EDTA TENET ERI INGA STAY Ae O ARRAS AEGEAN ERS Bae Apoptosis: Cedl suicide or more commonly phrased as programmed cell death, Apoptosis is performed by a controlled sequence of events or a program that eventually leads to the elimination of the cells without causing any harm to the surrounding environment. Autoimmune: A state in which the immune system itself attacks the body s (self) tissues. This occurs when the immune system maifunctions and loses capability to distinguish between foreign substances such as bacteria, viruses, etc. and its own tissues and attacks the latter destroying the self. Chemotaxis: The movement of a cell or a being towards a specific chemical. Such movement maybe towards a higher or, in some cases, lower concentrations of the chemical (Chemotactic behaviour) Cilia: Tiny hairs in the respiratory tract (in this context) that prevent mucus and dirt from entering the lungs. Cytokines: Molecules that act as chemical messengers to facilitate communication between immune cells. Dendritic cells: Antigen-presenting cells of the immune system, which play a significant role in regulating t