than data to control the solution process. "In the knowledge lies the power" is a theme repeatedly followed and supported throughout this book. Much of the knowledge used is heuristic in nature rather than algorithmic. 2. The knowledge is encoded and maintained as an entity separate from the control program. As such, it is not compiled together with the control program itself. This permits the incremental addition and modification (refinement) of the knowledge base without recompilation of the control programs. Furthermore, it is possible in some cases to use different knowledge bases with the same control programs to produce different types of expert systems. Such system .s are known as expert system shells since they may be loaded with different knowledge bases. 3. Expert systems are capable of explaining how a particular conclusion was reached, and why requested information is needed during a consultation. This is important as it gives the user a chance to assess and understand the system's reasoning ability, thereby improving the user's confidence in the system. 4. Expert systems use symbolic representations for knowledge (rules, networks, or frames) and perform their inference through symbolic computations that closely resemble manipulations of natural language. (An exception to this is the expert system based on neural network architectures.) S. Expert systems often reason with metaknowledge; that is, they reason with knowledge about themselves, and their own knowledge limits and capabilities. Background History Expert systems first emerged from the research laboratories of a few leading U.S. universities during the 1960 and 1970s. They were developed as specialized problem 328 Expert Systems Architectures Chap. 15 solvers which emphasized the use of knowledge rather than algorithms and general search methods. This approach marked a significant departure from conventional Al systems architectures at the time. The accepted direction of researchers then was to u