 not the Go del number of a proof of the sentence whose Go del
numberisj,wheretheproofusesonlypremisesin A.
Thenlet bethesentence ( ,A),thatis,asentencethatstatesitsownunprov-
abilityfrom A. (Thatthissentence alwaysexistsistruebutnotentirely obvious.)
Now we make the following ingenious argument: Suppose that is provable
from A; then is false (because says it cannot be proved). But then we have a
falsesentencethatisprovablefrom A,so Acannotconsistofonlytruesentences aviolationofourpremise. Therefore, isnotprovablefrom A. Butthisisexactly
what itselfclaims;hence isatruesentence.
So, we have shown (barring 291 pages) that for any set of true sentences of
2
number theory, and in particular any set of basic axioms, there are other true sen-
tences that cannot be proved from those axioms. This establishes, among other
things, that we can never prove all the theorems of mathematics within any given
system of axioms. Clearly, this was an important discovery for mathematics. Its
significancefor AIhasbeenwidelydebated,beginningwithspeculationsby Go del
himself. Wetakeupthedebatein Chapter26.
Section9.5. Resolution 353
proof using the clauses of S itself, which are not necessarily ground clauses. We start by
considering asingleapplication oftheresolution rule. Robinsonstatedthislemma:
(cid:2) (cid:2)
Let C and C be two clauses with no shared variables, and let C and C be
1 2 1 2
(cid:2) (cid:2) (cid:2)
groundinstancesof C and C . If C isaresolventof C and C ,thenthereexists
1 2 1 2
(cid:2)
a clause C such that (1) C is a resolvent of C and C and (2) C is a ground
1 2
instanceof C.
Thisiscalledaliftinglemma,becauseitliftsaproofstepfromgroundclausesuptogeneral
LIFTINGLEMMA
first-order clauses. In order to prove his basic lifting lemma, Robinson had to invent unifi-
cation and derive all of the properties of most general unifiers. Rather than repeat the proof
here,wesimplyillustrate thelemma:
C P(x,F(x,A)) Q(x,A) R(x,B)
1
C N(G(y),z) P(H(y),z)
2
C (cid:2) P(H(B),F(H(B),A)) Q(H(B