18 ir the preceding chapters, we have looked at approaches to problem solving; both from first principles and by means of exploiting knowledge and experience. Solving problems by first principles requires the representation of the domain, and that involves an ontological commitment that the system builder has to make. Further, general purpose search methods need heuristic guidance to be effective for solving large problems. This demands a certain amount of knowledge to be fed into the system. Knowledge based methods too require a domain ontology to be defined. In addition, they require the specific problem solving knowledge that is harnessed for solving the problem. When this results in vast amounts of knowledge to be stored in some form, these methods in turn need to search through the knowledge that is represented. In summary, problem solving demands an eclectic mix of search methods operating upon different knowledge representations. Where does this knowledge come from? If one were to rely on human programmers to provide all knowledge and fine tune the system, then one, the evolution of machine intelligence would be slow and two, not adaptive to a changing world. Machines need the ability to explore the world and acquire the requisite knowledge they need for problem solving on their own. In that sense, machine learning is the final frontier. All knowledge accrues through a process of learning. Learning could take place through a transfer process in which a teacher imparts knowledge to the learner. The learner still needs to know how to assimilate the knowledge received. At a more fundamental level, learning could take place via a process of induction and generalization from examples. Here again, the learner needs to have a bias and efficient procedures. Human beings start off learning at a very slow pace. It takes months of patience and repetition by parents before a child starts forming concepts, naming them, refining them, and learning to express them in langua