e use of a version space which bounds the Set of plausible heuristics that are applicable in a given problem state. LEX uses a syntactic 'form of bias, its grammar, to limit the size of the hypothesis space. In LEX, generalizations are found by climbing a hierarchical description tree. The third system considered, INDUCE, formed generalized descriptions of class of objects in an extended form of predicate calculus. This system builds both attribute and structural types of descriptions. One weakness of this system, however, is the amount of processing required when creating descriptions by removing the selectors in all possible ways. When the number of object descriptions becomes large, the computation becomes excessive. The fourth and final inductive learner described in this chapter was Winston's Arch. This system builds associative net representations of structural concepts. One of the unique aspects of this system is the use of near miss negative examples which differ from positive examples in only a single feature. This simplifies the learning process somewhat. This system is similar in some ways to the one described in the previous chapter. It is not able to build disjunctive descriptions like that system, however. Similar features shared by all of these systems include the use of symbolic representations, and the methods of generalization and specialization. The principal differences among these paradigms are the forms of symbolic representation schemes used and the algorithms employed for generalizing and specializing. EXERCISES 19.1. Derive the discrimination tree of Figure 19.2 using attributes arranged in the following order: height, weight, horned, and color, 19.2. Prove that the entropy H is maximum when p = p, for all i, j = 1,2.... . n, where H = p * log p 19.3. Plot the entropy as a function of p for the case n = 2; that is. plot H as p ranges from 0 to 1. 19.4. Describe how LEX generalizes from tan. cos. In, and log to transc (transcendental). 19.5. 