nd contains some condition v d, an edge from d to d' labelled with cond cond v d is added. cond does not contain the condition v d for any deD,, an edge from each deD, d labelled with cond is added. Edges represent transitions and the labels represent conditions on transitions. Observe that the labels are on other variables in the domain that must satisfy some conditions. The authors assume that the edges for transitions derived from operators have weight 1 and edges from axioms have weight 0. These weights play a role in the heuristic computation. Figure 10.19 illustrates the transition graph for a three block STRIPS problem. The graph is shown for the state variable On(A) which can take values from its domain B, C, nif where On(A) nil stands for the situation when the robot arm is holding block A, and Holding(arm) nil stands for ArmEmpty. Holding(arm) A, Holding(arm) A, Clear(B) 1 Clear(C) 1 - o- o Ba VW M Holding(arm) nil, (nil) ZS nil, Clear(A) 1 Clear(A) 1 FIGURE 10.19 The domain transition graph for the state variable On(A), between its three values B, C, and nil. If all the actions in the MPT are unary, that is they have only one effect, then the transitions in the state space have a correspondence with transitions in the DTG. A given state in the state space can be represented by a set of active vertices in the DTGs. Applying an action corresponds to making a transition in one DTG. For non-unary actions, one has to link variables in the effects so that transitions in the transitions in their DTGs happen in a synchronized fashion. The treatment for handling transitions in derived variables involves extending the DTGs to states not described explicitly by the axioms, and take into account cascading effects (see (Helmert, 2006) for a detailed discussion). Causal Graphs (CG) are designed to capture dependencies between variables (Williams and Nayak, 1997). Causal graphs capture relations between variables and are defined as follows. Let P be a planning problem w