the high voltage flyback transformer or related component is the culprit. This type of reasoning may not always be correct, but it frequeitly is. and then it leads to a quick solution. Knowledge should not be confused with data. Feigenbaum and Mc Corduck (1983) emphasize this difference with the following example. A physican treating a patient uses both knowledge and data. The data is the patient's record, including patient history, measurements of vital signs. drugs given, response to drugs, and so on, whereas the knowledge is what the physician has learned in medical school and in the years of internship, residency, specialization, and practice, Knowledge is hat the physician now learns in journals. It consists of facts, prejudices. beliefs. and most importantly, heuristic knowledge. Thus, we can say that knowledge includes and requires the use of data and information. But it is more. It combines relationships, correlations, dependencies. and the notion of gestalt with data and information. Even with the above distinction, we have been using knowledge in its broader sense up to this point. At times, however, it will be useful or even necessary to distinguish between knowledge and other concepts such as belief and hypotheses. For such cases we make the following distinctions. We define belief as essentially any meaningful and coherent expression that can be represented. Thus, a belief may be true or false. We define a hypothesis as a justified belief that is not known to be true. Thus, a hypothesis is a belief which is hacked up with some supporting evidence, but it may still be false. Finally, we define knowledge as true justified belief. Since these distinctions will be made more formal in later chapters., we need not attempt to give any further definitions of truth or justification at this time. Two other knowledge terms which we shall occasionally use are epistemology 12 -: Knowledge: General Concepts Chap. 2 and metaknowledge. Epistemology is the study of the 