t nonlinear planning in TWEAK. Modal logics also allow us to talk of the truth or falsehood of statements concerning the beliefs, knowledge, desires, intentions, and obligations of people and robots, which may, in fact be, respectively, false, unjustified, unsatisfiable, irrational, or mutually contradictory. Modal logics thus provide a set of powerful tools for understanding natural language utterances, which often involve reference to other times and circumstances, and to the mental states of people. In particular, to model individual belief we define a modal operator BELIEVE, that enables us to make assertions of the form BELIEVE(A, P), which is true whenever A believes P to be true. Notice that this can occur even if P is believed by someone else to be false or even if P is false. Another useful modal operator is KNOW: BELIEVE(A, P) A P > KNOW(A, P)} A third useful! modal operator is KNOW-WHAT(A, P), which is true if A knows the value of the function P. For example, we might say that A knows the value of his age. An alternative way to represent individual beliefs is to use the idea of knowledge base partitioning that we discussed in Section 9.1. Partitioning enables us to do two things: 1. Represent efficiently the large set of beliefs shared by the participants. We discussed one way of doing this above. 2. Represent accurately the smaller set of beliefs that are not shared. Requirement 1 makes it imperative that shared beliefs not be Hit 1 duplicated in the representation. This suggests that a single ry Mary knowledge base must be used to represent the beliefs of all the instance agent participants. But requirement 2 demands that it be possible to separate the beliefs of one person from those of another. One way [Act dative to do this is to use partitioned semantic nets. Figure 15.20 shows an example of a partitioned belief space. Three different belief spaces are shown: Bill Sl believes that Mary hit Bill. Ss $2 believes that Sue hit Bill. pagent 3 believes th