 at. The simplest possible variables used for representation are nominal, in which the variable either has a value or does not. For example, a mechanic diagnosing a vehicle might say that the engine noise is normal , or an enthusiastic trekker might declare that the weather is clear . An example that affects us all is the classification of an electric voltage signal into 1 or not 1 (that is, 0) inside our computers. A more informative type of variable is the ordinal type. The different values that the variable can take can be compared according to a base order. These values are typically the landmark values determined by the domain. In the train example above, the stations are ordered being further and further away from the source. Likewise, if we had water being heated in a pan then the landmark values could be the ordered set absolute zero, freezing point, room temperature, boiling point, infinity . Such an ordered set of values defines a quantity space. The interval between any two landmarks would be a state, and state change could be to or from the landmark at the state boundary. The simplest quantity space contains only three values -, 0, . In this space, 0 represents the norm, while the deviations are either negative or positive. One can denote this quantity space as o to represent that the norm is 0. If one wanted to represent the human pulse rate then one could possibly use 72 as the norm. In the ball, in the room example of Figure 17.2, one could treat the two walls (assuming a two dimensional room), the roof, and the floor as landmarks for positions. The variables and their landmarks would be, X-pos Left-wall, Right-wall Y-pos Floor, Roof 5X-pos X-velocity -, 0, 5Y-pos Y-velocity -, 0, 5X-velocity X-acceleration -, 0, dY-velocity Y-acceleration -, 0, Using quantity spaces for a small number of variables and their derivatives can be surprisingly powerful. Consider a simple system of a pendulum or a spring with a mass. Let its position be represented by a va