s generated are depicted schematically. Given that a Script has been retrieved from memory and instantiated, the conceptualizations generated from the input sentences should match the corresponding conceptualizations in the Script. If that happens then the Script is applicable and generates the scaffolding for the overall story. First sentence Second sentence . Instantiated Senpt Expectations FIGURE 14.12 Matching Scripts. Conceptualizations generated from input sentences should match conceptualizations in the Script. The remaining conceptualizations in the Script serve as expectations on what one might hear. SAM needs to constantly verify that the Script it is using is indeed the Script that explains the story. It does this by maintaining a score that is an indicator of its belief in the Script. SAM also keeps other Scripts that could be applicable in its short-term memory. SAM fetches Scripts from its repository by a process of matching cues. Cullingford (1981) describes the following patterns used by SAM to retrieve scripts, with illustrations from a subway travel script. These patterns are stored as headers in the script. Direct Header Mentions the explicit use of the Script. For example, John took the subway to Coney island . Locale Header A circumstantial cue, for example, John walked into the Boro Hall subway station. Instrumental Header When the Script usage is mentioned as an instrumental action. For example, The IRT took John to Shea Stadium . Precondition Header Here, a sentence indicates that the preconditions for applying the Script hold. For example, John wanted to go downtown . Scripts contain conceptualizations that one assumes implicitly to happen, and may serve as receptors if more details in the story are forthcoming. They may also serve as plausible inferences about what might have happened, even though it was not stated explicitly. The following example from Cullingford s work shows how SAM could answer questions in a knowledgeable fashion. Inpu