search.9 Aheuristic h(n)isconsistent if, for
MONOTONICITY
(cid:2)
every node n and every successor n of n generated by any action a, the estimated cost of
(cid:2)
reaching the goal from n is no greater than the step cost of getting to n plus the estimated
(cid:2)
costofreachingthegoalfrom n:
h(n) c(n,a,n (cid:2) ) h(n (cid:2) ).
TRIANGLE Thisisaformofthegeneral triangleinequality,whichstipulatesthateachsideofatriangle
INEQUALITY
(cid:2)
cannot be longer than the sum of the other two sides. Here, the triangle is formed by n, n,
andthegoal G closestton. Foranadmissibleheuristic, theinequality makesperfect sense:
n
(cid:2)
if there were a route from n to G via n that was cheaper than h(n), that would violate the
n
property that h(n)isalowerboundonthecosttoreach G .
n
Itisfairlyeasytoshow(Exercise3.29)thateveryconsistentheuristicisalsoadmissible.
Consistency is therefore a stricter requirement than admissibility, but one has to work quite
hardtoconcoctheuristicsthatareadmissiblebutnotconsistent. Alltheadmissibleheuristics
we discuss in this chapter are also consistent. Consider, for example, h . We know that
SLD
the general triangle inequality is satisfied when each side is measured by the straight-line
(cid:2) (cid:2)
distance and that the straight-line distance between n and n is no greater than c(n,a,n).
Hence,h isaconsistent heuristic.
SLD
Optimalityof A As we mentioned earlier, A has the following properties: the tree-search version of A is
optimalifh(n)isadmissible, whilethegraph-search versionisoptimalifh(n)isconsistent.
We show the second of these two claims since it is more useful. The argument es-
sentially mirrors the argument for the optimality of uniform-cost search, with g replaced by f justasinthe A algorithm itself.
The first step is to establish the following: if h(n) is consistent, then the values of
f(n) along any path are nondecreasing. The proof follows directly from the definition of
(cid:2) (cid:2) (cid:2)
consistency. Suppose n isasuccessor of n;