f a unique representation. Does there exist a single, canonical way in which large bodies of knowledge can be represented independently of how they were originally stated? Another, closely related, uniqueness question asks whether individual objects can be represented uniquely and independently of how they are described. This issue is raised in the following quotation from Quine [1961] and discussed in Woods 11975]: The phrase Evening Star names a certain large physical object of spherical form, which is hurtling through space some scores of millions of miles from here. The phrase Morning Star names the same thing, as was probably first estab Jished by some observant Babylonian. But the two phrases cannot be regarded as having the same meaning; otherwise that Babylonian could have dispensed with his observations and contented himself with reflecting on the meaning of his words. The meanings, then, being different from one another, must be other than the named object, which is one and the same in both cases. In order for a program to be able to reason as did the Babylonian, it must be able to handle several distinct representations that tum out to stand for the same object. We discuss the question of the correct granularity of representation, as well as issues involving redundant storage of information, throughout the next several chapters, particularly in the section on conceptual dependency, since that theory explicitly proposes that a small set of low-level primitives should be used for representing actions. 4.3.4 Representing Sets of Objects It is important to be able to represent sets of objects for several reasons. One is that there are some properties that are true of sets that are not true of the individual members of a set. As examples, consider the assertions that are being made in the sentences There are more sheep than people in Australia and English speakers can be found all over the world. The only way to represent the facts described in these sentences