program) know about the world in general, know what other people know, and know the facts pertaining to a particular conversational setting. This all presumes a familiarity with the language structure and a minimal vocabulary. The component forms of knowledge needed for an understanding of natural language are sometimes classified according to the following levels. Phonological. This is knowledge which relates sounds to the words we recognize. A phoneme is the smallest unit of sound. Phones are aggregated into word sounds. Morphological. This is lexical knowledge which relates to word constructions from basic Units called morphemes. A morpheme is the smallest unit of meaning: for example, the construction of friendly from the root friend and the suffix 1'.. Syntactic. This knowledge relates to how words are put together or structured to form grammatically correct sentences in the language. Semantic. This knowledge is concerned with the meanings of words and phrases and how they combine to form sentence meanings. Pragmatic. This is high-level knowledge which relates to the use of sentences in different contexts and how the Context affects the meaning of the sentences. World. World knowledge relates to the language a user must have in order to understand and carry on a conversation. It must include an understanding of the other person's beliefs and goals. The approaches taken in developing language understanding programs generally follow the above levels or stages. When a string of words has been detected, the 230 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 sentences are parsed or analyzed to determine their structure (syntax) and grammatical correctness. The meanings (semantics) of the sentences are then determined and appropriate representation structures created for the inferencing programs. The whole process is a series of transformations from the basic speech sounds to a complete set of internal representation structures. Understanding written language or text is easier