: an n-gram that came back from a very specific query rewrite (such as the exact
phrase match query Abraham Lincoln was killed by ) would get more weight than one
from a general query rewrite, such as Abraham OR Lincoln OR killed . We would expect
that John Wilkes Booth wouldbeamongthehighlyrankedn-gramsretrieved,butsowould Abraham Lincoln and theassassination of and Ford s Theatre. Once the n-grams are scored, they are filtered by expected type. If the original query
startswith who, thenwefilteronnamesofpeople;for howmany wefilteronnumbers,for when, onadateortime. Thereisalsoafilterthatsaystheanswershouldnotbepartofthe
question; together these should allow us to return John Wilkes Booth (and not Abraham
Lincoln )asthehighest-scoring response.
In some cases the answer will be longer than three words; since the components re-
sponses only go up to 3-grams, a longer response would have to be pieced together from
shorter pieces. For example, in a system that used only bigrams, the answer John Wilkes
Booth couldbepiecedtogetherfromhigh-scoringpieces John Wilkes and Wilkes Booth. At the Text Retrieval Evaluation Conference (TREC), ASKMSR was rated as one of
the top systems, beating out competitors with the ability to do far more complex language
understanding. ASKMSR relies upon the breadth of the content on the Web rather than on
its own depth of understanding. It won t be able to handle complex inference patterns like
associating whokilled with ended thelifeof. Butitknowsthatthe Webissovastthatit
canaffordtoignorepassages likethatandwaitforasimplepassage itcanhandle.
22.4 INFORMATION EXTRACTION
INFORMATION Informationextractionistheprocessofacquiringknowledgebyskimmingatextandlook-
EXTRACTION
ing for occurrences of a particular class of object and for relationships among objects. A
typical task is to extract instances of addresses from Web pages, with database fields for
street, city, state, and zip code; or instances of storms from weather reports, with fields for
tem