 may leave some variables to be instantiated at run time by the Executive. The interested reader is referred to the autonomy papers referred in this section for a detailed description of temporal planning with intervals using constraints, and the interplay between the planner and the executive in dynamic environments. 10.8 Discussion Research in planning received an impetus with the development of methods like Graphplan in the middle of 1990s. Given that even the simplest of planning domains are in PSPACE, the simple search algorithms were never going to go far. One advance that was made with the advent of Graphplan was a two stage process. In the first stage, the search space is delimited and some kind of a reachability analysis done on the given problem. Once a solution looks to be feasible, the search space operates on a delimited space. The second interesting development that took place was the defining of domain independent heuristics to guide search methods. The heuristics estimate the distance of a partial solution from a complete one by exploring a relaxed version of the original problem. The advancements in planning algorithms, and also the increasing computing power becoming available, led to the exploration of richer domains for planning. Starting with metric resources, researchers have explored conditional effects, contingent and conformant planning, and moved on to planning with durative actions and trajectory constraints. The next advancement of soft goals and soft trajectory constraints raises the difficulty level of the problem. Now the definition of a valid plan itself becomes nonrigid. While one may want to achieve all the goals that have been specified, one would be willing to accept plans that do not satisfy some goals. The fact that different soft goals may have differing amounts of penalties associated with them makes the planning problem an optimization problem of greater complexity. At the same time, researchers started employing artificial i