teq Which is true only for x Jennifer, and satisfies the ordering condition 3 in the definition of circumscription. That is, Qisolated Pisolatea- Further, the KB3 is true for Qysolateg. Thus, this version of Pisolateg does not participate in the circumscribed knowledge base. One can observe that in the circumscribed knowledge base, the formula Piso ateq has to be true only for x Jennifer. Then one cannot find a smaller predicate such the knowledge base is true. And this circumscribed knowledge base entails Chat(aditi, shubhagata). This is still contingent on the fact that Shubhagata and Jennifer do not refer to the same individual, and this can be ensured by make a Unique Name Assumption (UNA) which says that every constant is a unique name for some individual. An alternative way of specifying the predicate with the smallest extension is to consider interpretations and choose the smallest interpretation defined as follows (Brachman and Levesque, 2004). Let 9,(D, ,) and (D, 2) be two interpretations that agree on all constants and functions of the language. We define the relation as follows, 9, 9, iff for every predicate P being circumscribed J,(P) c L,(P) And, 9, iff 9, 9, and 9, 9,. We can now define entailment under circumscription as4, KB. iff for every interpretation 9 such that 9 KB either KB aor there is an interpretation 9 such that 9 and 9 KB. If the predicate being circumscribed is solated, then we can also say equivalently that, KBFE.a iff Cuirc KB; Isolated F a Let us look at the KB3 and pose the query Chait(aditi, shubhagata)? There are four interpretations that may be relevant here and we have to look at every one of them. ,: aditi J,(Isolated) and shubhagata J,(Isolated). Here, the case is that, Friend(aditi, shubhgata), Isolated(aditi), Isolated(shubhagata) and Vx Vy (Friend(x,y)ATIsolated(x)AIsolated(y ) Chat(x,)) Therefore, Chat(aditi, shubhagata) : aditi ,(Isolated) and shubhagata 2(Isolated). Here, the above deduction does not apply but it is the 