tions inwhich favorable captures can be made
arenotquiescentforanevaluation functionthatjustcountsmaterial. Nonquiescent positions
can be expanded further until quiescent positions are reached. This extra search is called a
QUIESCENCE quiescence search; sometimes it is restricted to consider only certain types of moves, such
SEARCH
ascapture moves,thatwillquickly resolvetheuncertainties intheposition.
The horizon effect is more difficult to eliminate. It arises when the program is facing
HORIZONEFFECT
an opponent s move that causes serious damage and is ultimately unavoidable, but can be
temporarily avoided by delaying tactics. Consider the chess game in Figure 5.9. It is clear
that there isno wayforthe black bishop toescape. Forexample, the white rook cancapture
itbymovingtoh1,thena1,thena2;acaptureatdepth6ply. But Blackdoeshaveasequence
of moves that pushes the capture of the bishop over the horizon. Suppose Black searches
todepth8ply. Mostmovesby Blackwillleadtotheeventualcaptureofthebishop, andthus
will be marked as bad moves. But Black will consider checking the white king with the
pawnate4. Thiswillleadtothekingcapturingthepawn. Now Blackwillconsiderchecking
again, with the pawn at f5, leading to another pawn capture. That takes up 4 ply, and from
there the remaining 4 ply is not enough to capture the bishop. Black thinks that the line of
playhassavedthebishop atthepriceoftwopawns,whenactually allithasdoneispushthe
inevitable captureofthebishopbeyondthehorizonthat Blackcansee.
SINGULAR One strategy to mitigate the horizon effect is the singular extension, a move that is
EXTENSION clearly better than all other moves in a given position. Once discovered anywhere in the
treeinthecourseofasearch,thissingularmoveisremembered. Whenthesearchreachesthe
normaldepth limit,thealgorithm checks toseeifthesingularextension isalegalmove;ifit
is, the algorithm allows the moveto be considered. This makes the tree deeper, but because
therewillbefewsingularextensions, itdoesnota