 network, we
haveintroducednodesintop-to-bottomorder.
Even in a locally structured domain, we will get a compact Bayesian network only if
we choose the node ordering well. What happens if we happen to choose the wrong or-
der? Consider theburglary example again. Suppose wedecide toadd the nodes inthe order
Mary Calls, John Calls, Alarm, Burglary, Earthquake. We then get the somewhat more
complicated networkshownin Figure14.3(a). Theprocess goesasfollows: Adding Mary Calls: Noparents. Adding John Calls: If Mary calls, that probably means the alarm has gone off, which
of course would make it more likely that John calls. Therefore, John Calls needs
Mary Calls asaparent. Adding Alarm: Clearly,ifbothcall,itismorelikelythatthealarmhasgoneoffthanif
justoneorneithercalls,soweneedboth Mary Calls and John Calls asparents. Adding Burglary: If we know the alarm state, then the call from John or Mary might
giveusinformation aboutourphoneringing or Mary smusic, butnotaboutburglary:
P(Burglary Alarm,John Calls,Mary Calls) P(Burglary Alarm).
Henceweneedjust Alarm asparent. Adding Earthquake: If the alarm is on, it is more likely that there has been an earth-
quake. (The alarm is an earthquake detector of sorts.) But if we know that there has
beenaburglary,thenthatexplainsthealarm,andtheprobabilityofanearthquakewould
beonlyslightly abovenormal. Hence,weneedboth Alarm and Burglary asparents.
The resulting network has two more links than the original network in Figure 14.2 and re-
quires three more probabilities to be specified. What s worse, some of the links represent
tenuous relationships that require difficult and unnatural probability judgments, such as as-
Section14.2. The Semanticsof Bayesian Networks 517
sessing the probability of Earthquake, given Burglary and Alarm. This phenomenon is
quite general and is related to the distinction between causal and diagnostic models intro-
duced in Section 13.5.1 (see also Exercise 8.13). If we try to build a diagnostic model with
links fr