ter 11. Planningand Actinginthe Real World
Jobs( Add Engine1 Add Wheels1 Inspect1 , Add Engine2 Add Wheels2 Inspect2 )
Resources(Engine Hoists(1),Wheel Stations(1),Inspectors(2),Lug Nuts(500))
Action(Add Engine1,DURATION:30,
USE:Engine Hoists(1))
Action(Add Engine2,DURATION:60,
USE:Engine Hoists(1))
Action(Add Wheels1,DURATION:30,
CONSUME:Lug Nuts(20),USE:Wheel Stations(1))
Action(Add Wheels2,DURATION:15,
CONSUME:Lug Nuts(20),USE:Wheel Stations(1))
Action(Inspect
i
,DURATION:10,
USE:Inspectors(1))
Figure11.1 Ajob-shopschedulingproblemforassemblingtwocars,with resourcecon-
straints. Thenotation A Bmeansthataction Amustprecedeaction B.
Thisapproachiscommoninreal-worldmanufacturingandlogisticalsettings,wheretheplan-
ningphase isoftenperformed byhumanexperts. Theautomated methods of Chapter10can
also be used for the planning phase, provided that they produce plans with just the minimal
ordering constraints required forcorrectness. GRAPHPLAN (Section 10.3), SATPLAN (Sec-
tion 10.4.1), and partial-order planners (Section 10.4.4) can do this; search-based methods
(Section 10.2) produce totally ordered plans, but these can easily be converted to plans with
minimalordering constraints.
11.1.1 Representing temporal andresource constraints
A typical job-shop scheduling problem, as first introduced in Section 6.1.2, consists of a
set of jobs, each of which consists a collection of actions with ordering constraints among
JOB
them. Each action has a duration and a set of resource constraints required by the action.
DURATION
Each constraint specifies a type of resource (e.g., bolts, wrenches, or pilots), the number
of that resource required, and whether that resource is consumable (e.g., the bolts are no
CONSUMABLE
longer available foruse) or reusable (e.g., apilot is occupied during a flight but is available
REUSABLE
againwhentheflightisover). Resources canalsobe produced byactionswithnegativecon-
sumption, including manufacturing, growing, andresupply actions. Asolution toajob-s