toniclogics, whichviolatethemonotonicity property, capturea commonproperty ofhuman rea-
soning:changingone smind.Theyarediscussedin Section12.6.
252 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
Forexample,supposetheknowledgebasecontainstheadditionalassertion statingthatthere
areexactlyeightpitsintheworld. Thisknowledgemighthelptheagentdrawadditionalcon-
clusions, but it cannot invalidate any conclusion already inferred such as the conclusion
thatthereisnopitin 1,2 . Monotonicitymeansthatinferencerulescanbeappliedwhenever
suitable premises are found in the knowledge base the conclusion of the rule must follow
regardless ofwhatelseisintheknowledge base.
7.5.2 Proofby resolution
Wehave argued that the inference rules covered so farare sound, but wehave not discussed
the question of completeness for the inference algorithms that use them. Search algorithms
such as iterative deepening search (page 89) are complete in the sense that they will find
any reachable goal, but if the available inference rules are inadequate, then the goal is not
reachable no proof existsthatuses onlythose inference rules. Forexample, ifweremoved
the biconditional elimination rule, the proof in the preceding section would not go through.
The current section introduces a single inference rule, resolution, that yields a complete
inference algorithm whencoupledwithanycompletesearchalgorithm.
Webeginbyusingasimpleversion oftheresolution ruleinthewumpusworld. Letus
consider the steps leading up to Figure 7.4(a): the agent returns from 2,1 to 1,1 and then
goes to 1,2 , where it perceives a stench, but no breeze. We add the following facts to the
knowledgebase:
R : B .
11 1,2
R : B (P P P ).
12 1,2 1,1 2,2 1,3
By the same process that led to R earlier, we can now derive the absence of pits in 2,2 10
and 1,3 (rememberthat 1,1 isalreadyknowntobepitless):
R : P .
13 2,2
R : P .
14 1,3
We can also apply biconditional elimination to R , followed by Modus Ponens with R , to
3 5
obtainthefactthatthereisapitin 1,1 , 2,2 ,or 3,1 