andcom-
puter programs are beginning to catch up. It helps to recall the notion of a belief state as
defined in Section 4.4 and illustrated in Figure 4.14 the set of all logically possible board
states given the complete history of percepts to date. Initially, White s belief state is a sin-
gleton because Black s pieces haven t moved yet. After White makes a move and Black re-
sponds, White s belief state contains 20positions because Blackhas20replies toany White
move. Keepingtrackofthebeliefstateasthegameprogressesisexactlytheproblemofstate
estimation, for which the update step is given in Equation (4.6). We can map Kriegspiel
state estimation directly onto the partially observable, nondeterministic framework of Sec-
tion 4.4 if we consider the opponent as the source of nondeterminism; that is, the RESULTS
of White smovearecomposedfromthe(predictable) outcome of White sownmoveandthe
unpredictable outcomegivenby Black sreply.3
Given a current belief state, White may ask, Can I win the game? For a partially
observable game, the notion of a strategy is altered; instead of specifying a move to make
foreachpossible movetheopponent mightmake,weneedamoveforeverypossible percept
sequence that might be received. For Kriegspiel, a winning strategy, or guaranteed check-
GUARANTEED mate,isonethat, foreachpossible percept sequence, leadstoan actual checkmate forevery
CHECKMATE
possible board state in the current belief state, regardless of how the opponent moves. With
this definition, the opponent s belief state is irrelevant the strategy has to work even if the
opponent can see all the pieces. This greatly simplifies the computation. Figure 5.13 shows
part of a guaranteed checkmate for the KRK (king and rook against king) endgame. In this
case, Blackhasjustonepiece(theking), soabelief statefor Whitecanbeshowninasingle
boardbymarkingeachpossible position ofthe Blackking.
The general AND-OR search algorithm can be applied to the belief-state space to find
guaranteed checkmates, 