to the learner about the performance. Factors which affect the performance or learner system include (I) the representation scheme used. (2) the training scenario, (3) the type of feedback, (4) background knowledge, and (5) the learning algorithm. Performance measures provide a means of comparing different performance characteristics of learning algorithms (systems). Some of the more important performance measures are generality, efficiency, robustness, efficacy, and ease of implement tion. Lacking formal metrics for some measures will require that subjective estimates be used instead. 366 General Concepts in Knowledge Acquisition Chap. 16 EXERCISES 16.1. Give a detailed definition of knowledge acquisition complete with an example. 16.2. Give an example for each of the following types of knowledge: (a) a fact, (h) a rule. (c) a concept. (d) a procedure, (c) a heuristic, (f) a relationship. 16.3. How is machine learning distinguished from general knowledge acquisition? 16.4. The taxonomy of learning methods given in this chapter is based on the type of behavior or inference strategy used. Give another taxonomy for learning methods and illustrate with some examples. 16.5. Describe the role of each component of a general learning model and why it is needed for the learning process. 16.6. Explain why a learning component should nave scope. 16.7. What is the difference between efficiency and efficacy with regard to the performance of a learner system? 16.8. Review the knowledge acquisition section in Chapter 15 and explain why elicitation of knowledge from experts is s difficult. 16.9. Consult a good dictionary and describe the difference between induction and deduction. Give examples of both. 16.10. Explain why inductive learning should require more inference than learning by being told (instruction). 16.11. Try to determine whether inductive learning requires more inference than analogical learning. Give reasons for your conclusion. Which of the two types of learning, 