 toasimple algorithm forlogical inference. Ev-
erything takesplace, ofcourse, inthewumpusworld.
6 As Wittgenstein(1922)putitinhisfamous Tractatus: Theworldiseverythingthatisthecase. 244 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
7.4.1 Syntax
The syntax of propositional logic defines the allowable sentences. The atomic sentences
ATOMICSENTENCES
PROPOSITION consist of a single proposition symbol. Each such symbol stands for a proposition that can
SYMBOL
be true or false. We use symbols that start with an uppercase letter and may contain other
letters or subscripts, for example: P, Q, R, W and North. The names are arbitrary but
1,3
are often chosen to have some mnemonic value we use W to stand for the proposition
1,3
that the wumpus is in 1,3 . (Remember that symbols such as W are atomic, i.e., W, 1,
1,3
and3arenotmeaningfulpartsofthesymbol.) Therearetwoproposition symbolswithfixed
meanings: True is the always-true proposition and False is the always-false proposition.
COMPLEX Complex sentences are constructed from simpler sentences, using parentheses and logical
SENTENCES
LOGICAL connectives. Therearefiveconnectives incommonuse:
CONNECTIVES (not). A sentence such as W is called the negation of W . A literal is either an
NEGATION 1,3 1,3
atomicsentence(apositiveliteral)oranegatedatomicsentence (anegative literal).
LITERAL (and). A sentence whose main connective is , such as W P , is called a con-
1,3 3,1
junction;itspartsaretheconjuncts. (The lookslikean A for And. )
CONJUNCTION (or). Asentenceusing ,suchas(W P ) W ,isadisjunctionofthedisjuncts
DISJUNCTION 1,3 3,1 2,2
(W P )and W . (Historically, the comes fromthe Latin vel, which means
1,3 3,1 2,2 or. Formostpeople, itiseasiertoremember asanupside-down .) (implies). Asentencesuchas(W P ) W iscalledanimplication(orcon-
IMPLICATION 1,3 3,1 2,2
ditional). Itspremiseorantecedentis(W P ),anditsconclusionorconsequent
PREMISE 1,3 3,1
is W . Implications arealsoknownas rulesorif thenstatements. Theimplication
CONCLUSION 2,2
symbolissometimesw