nt role. First, in recall, matching is used to determine candidate situations. Second, matching is used for scoring to select the best analogue. Finally, matching is used to determine how parts and relationships are mapped from base to target domains. Grelner's NLAG System Russell Greiner (1988) developed an analogical learning system he called NLAG using Stanford University's MRS logic development language. The system requires three inputs and produces a single output. The inputs are an impoverished theory (a theory lacking in knowledge with which to solve a given problem), an analogical hint, and the given problem for solution. The output from the system is a solution conjecture for the problem based on the analogical hint. Using Greiner's notation, the process can be described as follows. The analogical inference process described here is represented by the operator i-. This operator takes three inputs. 1. A finite collection of Consistent propositions (rules, facts, and the like) called a theory (Th). 2. An analogical hint about the source and target analogues A and B respectively, written A -- B (A is like B). Here A = (a!.....aj and B = {b1 ...... Q are sets of arbitrary formulae or knowledge related to some problem Situations. 3. A problem to be solved in the target domain (target problem) denoted as PT. The output from the system is a Set of new propositions or conjectures 4(A) related to the set B that can be used to solve PT. The above process can be summarized as follows: Tb, A 'B '=,.(A) 424 Analogical and Explanation-Based Learning Chap. 20 The NLAG system was designed to perform useful, analogical learning. We define the learning part here as the process of determining or creating one or more formulas f which are not initially in the deductive closure of Th, that is, such that Th fholds, (so f is not initially derivable from Th), and such that Th -f, that is. / is not known to be false: so the augmented theory is l'h' = Th U j} consistent. We specializ