We could use it to evaluate our original hypothesis that
the points come from an object model. We do this by using some points to determine the
parameters of the camera, then projecting model points in this camera and checking to see
whetherthereareimagepointsnearby.
Wehavesketchedhereatechnologythatisnowveryhighlydeveloped. Thetechnology
can be generalized to deal with views that are not orthographic; to deal with points that are
observed in only some views; to deal with unknown camera properties like focal length; to
exploitvarioussophisticated searchesforappropriatecorrespondences; andtodoreconstruc-
tion from verylarge numbers ofpoints andofviews. Ifthelocations ofpoints intheimages
areknownwithsomeaccuracyandtheviewingdirectionsarereasonable, veryhighaccuracy
cameraandpointinformation canbeobtained. Someapplications are Model-building: For example, one might build a modeling system that takes a video
sequence depicting an object and produces a very detailed three-dimensional mesh of
texturedpolygonsforuseincomputergraphicsandvirtualrealityapplications. Models
like this can now be built from apparently quite unpromising sets of pictures. For ex-
ample, Figure 24.26 shows a model of the Statue of Liberty built from pictures found
onthe Internet. Matching moves: To place computer graphics characters into real video, we need to
know how the camera moved for the real video, so that we can render the character
correctly. Path reconstruction: Mobile robots need to know where they have been. If they are
moving in a world of rigid objects, then performing a reconstruction and keeping the
camerainformation isonewaytoobtainapath.
24.6.3 Usingvisionforcontrolling movement
Oneoftheprincipal usesofvisionistoprovideinformation bothformanipulating objects pickingthemup,graspingthem,twirlingthem,andsoon andfornavigatingwhileavoiding
obstacles. The ability to use vision for these purposes is present in the most primitive of
animal visual systems. In many cases, the visual system