sily replicated in multiple copies, and embedded into different applications. 16 See hitp: heli.stanford.edu 17 See http: www.rci.rutgers.edu cfs 472 htmi Learn Winston.html 18 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Automated Mathematician 19 See hitp: www.cs.cmu.edu tom 12 13 Epilogue So? Can a machine think? Can a mere piece of engineered matter emulate us thinking creatures of flesh and blood? There are two questions here. The first, what is intelligence? And the second, can it exist in a human made object? The world around us, including us, has been fashioned by the ratchet mechanism of evolution by natural selection. Nature is just the platform on which this game of evolution is played out. As observed by Richard Dawkins, nature is not a masterful clockmaker that has built the wonderful world around us. Nature is mindless. The game of survival simply plays out in its lap. What Charles Darwin postulated was that the most complex creatures, like us, can emerge from this process of evolution. In the words of the philosopher Daniel C Dennett t was, indeed, a strange inversion of reasoning. To this day, many people cannot get their heads around the unsettling idea that a purposeless, mindless process can crank away through the eons, generating ever more subtle, efficient, and complex organisms without having the slightest whiff of understanding of what it is doing. (Dennett, 2012). Writing in the centenary year since Turing was born, Dennett goes on the argue that when Alan Turing wrote his paper asserting that one could construct a single machine by which all computable functions could be computed (Turing, 1936; 1937), he demonstrated that the most complex reasoning tasks could be broken down into simple enough steps that could be executed mechanically; in fact by machines. Turing s idea was a similar in fact remarkably similar strange inversion of reasoning. The Pre-Turing world was one in which computers were people, who had to understand mathematics in order to do thei