may contain two actions that cannot be done in parallel. To account for the relation between actions and their effects, we introduce edges between the action in a given layer and each of its effects in the next (proposition) layer. These edges are of two kinds, one for the add effects and the other for the delete effects. A proposition node may have both a positive edge and a negative edge coming in from different actions. Only one, though, can be part of a valid plan. 10.1.1 The Planning Graph A planning graph, therefore, is a layered graph consisting of alternating layers of proposition and action nodes (Po, Ay, P14, Az, Po, A3, P3, ..., An: P,). For every proposition peP;, there is a special action called No- op(p) Aj 1 that carries forward p to Pj. There are four kinds of edges between nodes. A precondition edge pj;, aj4 , linking the precondition p; to an action aj.1. These are depicted by solid lines in our figures. A positive edge a;, p; , linking an action a; to an add effect p; of a;. These are also depicted by solid lines in our figures. A negative edge a;, p; , linking an action a; to a delete effect p; of aj. These are depicted by solid lines with rounded heads in our figures. A mutex edge linking two propositions in the same layer, or two actions in the same layer. These are depicted by thick dotted lines in our figures. The planning graph is made up of the following sets associated with each index i. The set of actions A; in the i layer. The set of propositions P; in the " layer. The set of positive effect links PostP; of actions in the layer. The set of negative effect links PostN; of actions in the " layer. The set of preconditions links PreP; of actions in the layer from Pi-4. The set of action mutexes in the layer. The set of proposition mutexes in the i layer. Figure 10.3 illustrates the structure of a planning graph. The initial state of the planning problem defines the layer Po. Since Pp represents a given state, there can be no mutex edges in t