e battery is working) and the assumption that Broken (W2), there is no way that RW2 and consequently no way that BB3 , which in this example is a necessary condition for bulb B3 to be lit. By a similar argument, none of the wires can be broken if the Bs is to be on, and all candidates that have a wire are eliminated. What remains is the candidate B,, Bo . Struss and Dressler illustrate the use of multiple fault modes by the following example. In an adaptation shown in Figure 17.17, a water filtering system receives water through an input pipe P- N from a source2' D that is unbounded, or at least of a few orders of magnitude greater capacity. Filtered water flows out from P-OUT. If there is a leak or an overflow, the water falls into a catchment area O where it is sensed and an alarm raised. The observations are that Output(P-OUT) 0 and Alarm(O) Off. What has gone wrong? Figure 17.17 A water filtering system F gets input from a nearby dam D and sends the filtered water through P-OUT. An overflow catchment area O senses water and generates an alarm. The working models of P- IN, F, and P-OUT entail that Output(POUT) . So, there is a discrepancy between the observation and the prediction. A new case for GDE to solve. GDE generates the only conflict P-IN, F, P-OUT , resulting in the three candidates P- N , F , and P-OUT . This only says that one of the three components involved in supplying water is broken. Let us hand the case over to GDE . The following fault models describe some of the ways in which components may be broken. The names chosen are self explanatory. The details of their effects have been left out. Hole(F) Broken(F). The behaviour is that water leaks out of the tank in falls into the catchment area O, where it should be detected giving us Alarm(O) On. Perforated(Pipe) Broken,(Pipe). Likewise, one of the pipes may have a hole, letting the water fall into O and triggering the alarm. Blocked(Pipe) Broken2(Pipe). In this mode of failure, the pipe gets blocked