which all of these properties may be missing. In order to do this, we must address several key issues, including the following: 1. How can the knowledge base be extended to allow inferences to be made on the basis of lack of knowledge as well as on the presence of it? For example, we would like to be able to say things like, If you have no reason to suspect that a particular person committed a crime, then assume he didn t, or If you have no reason to believe that someone is not getting along with her relatives, then assume that the relatives will try to protect her. Specifically, we need to make clear the distinction between: @ Jt is known that =P. It is not known whether P. First-order predicate logic allows reasoning to be based on the first of these. We need an extended system that allows reasoning to be based on the second as well. In our new system, we call any inference that depends on the lack of some piece of knowledge a nonmonotonic inference.' Allowing such reasoning has a significant impact on a knowledge base. Nonmonotonic reasoning systems derive their name from the fact that because of inferences that depend on lack of knowledge, knowledge bases may not grow monotonically as new assertions are made. Adding a new assertion may invalidate an inference that depended on the absence of that assertion. First-order predicate logic systems, on the other hand, are monotonic in this respect. As new axioms are asserted, new wff s may become provable, but no old proofs ever become invalid. In other words, if some set of axioms T entails the truth of some statement w, then T combined with another set of axioms A also entails w, Because nonmonotonic reasoning does not share this property, itis also called defeasible: a nonmonotonic inference may be defeated (rendered invalid) by the addition of new information that violates assumptions that were made during the original reasoning process. It turns out, as we show below, that making this one change has a dramatic imp