 battery s being empty. A second reading of 0 at t 22 will make
thisconclusion almostcertain. Ifthetransientfailurethendisappears andthereadingreturns
to 5 from t 23 onwards, the estimate for the battery level will quickly return to 5, as if by
magic. Thiscourseofeventsisillustratedintheuppercurveof Figure15.14(a),whichshows
theexpectedvalueof Battery overtime,usingadiscrete Gaussianerrormodel.
t
Despitetherecovery,thereisatime(t 22)whentherobotisconvincedthatitsbattery
is empty; presumably, then, it should send out a mayday signal and shut down. Alas, its
oversimplified sensor model has led it astray. How can this be fixed? Consider a familiar
examplefromeverydayhumandriving: onsharpcurvesorsteephills,one s fueltankempty warninglightsometimesturnson. Ratherthanlookingfortheemergency phone, onesimply
recallsthatthefuelgaugesometimesgivesaverylargeerrorwhenthefuelissloshingaround
in the tank. The moral of the story is the following: for the system to handle sensor failure
properly, thesensormodelmustincludethepossibility offailure.
The simplest kind of failure model for a sensor allows a certain probability that the
sensor will return some completely incorrect value, regardless of the true state of the world.
Forexample,ifthebatterymeterfailsbyreturning 0,wemightsaythat
P(BMeter 0 Battery 5) 0.03,
t t
whichispresumably muchlarger thantheprobability assigned bythesimple Gaussian error
TRANSIENTFAILURE model. Let s call this the transient failure model. How does it help when we are faced
MODEL
with a reading of 0? Provided that the predicted probability of an empty battery, according
to the readings so far, is much less than 0.03, then the best explanation of the observation
BMeter 0isthatthesensorhastemporarilyfailed. Intuitively, wecanthinkofthebelief
21
aboutthebatterylevelashaving acertainamountof inertia thathelpstoovercometempo-
rary blips in the meter reading. The upper curve in Figure 15.14(b) shows that the transient
failuremodelcanhandletransient failureswith