ative primitive called token is sufficient to describe the evolution of system state variables over time. We look at the plan representation in a little more detail later. Mode Identification and Reconfiguration module(MIR) The MIR was a discrete, model based controller called Livingstone that has a single declarative model of the spacecraft (Williams and Nayak, 1996). The sensing component of MIR, called MI (mode identification), tracks the most likely spacecraft states by identifying states whose models are consistent with the sensed monitor values and the commands sent to the real time system . MI reports to EXEC, and informs it at a high level, if a sensed state is not what was expected, for example if a thruster has failed. The recovery component, MR (mode reconfiguration), then tries to find a least cost command sequence that establishes or restores desired functionality by reconfiguring hardware or repairing failed components . The EXEC calls MR with a specification of constraints when it needs to recover from a failure. The MR module is a reactive module, unlike the generative planner, and quickly finds a solution to satisfy the constraints. MIR is model based, in the sense that it works with a single, declarative, compositional model of the spacecraft. For the task of diagnosis, it employed qualitative models in which qualitative deviations from normal behaviour were used to identify and isolate faults. The search performed for consistent models is aided by an Incremental Truth Maintenance System (Nayak and Williams, 1997). We look at qualitative, model based diagnosis briefly in Chapter 17. An important conclusion drawn was that it is feasible to use deductive reasoning models in situations where the system is required to respond swiftly. We refer the interested reader to (Muscettola et al., 1998). Here, we simply list the functions performed by MI and MR. The mode identification system does the following in the Remote Agent. Mode Confirmation Informs the 