ircumscription anddefaultlogic.
8 Recallthatmonotonicityrequiresallentailedsentencestoremainentailedafternewsentencesareaddedtothe
KB.Thatis,if KB then KB .
Section12.6. Reasoning with Default Information 459
Circumscription can be seen as a more powerful and precise version of the closed-
CIRCUMSCRIPTION
worldassumption. Theideaistospecifyparticularpredicatesthatareassumedtobe asfalse
aspossible that is,falseforeveryobjectexceptthoseforwhichtheyareknowntobetrue.
Forexample, suppose wewanttoassert thedefault rule thatbirds fly. Wewouldintroduce a
predicate, say Abnormal (x),andwrite
1
Bird(x) Abnormal (x) Flies(x).
1
If we say that Abnormal is to be circumscribed, a circumscriptive reasoner is entitled to
1
assume Abnormal (x) unless Abnormal (x) is known to be true. This allows the con-
1 1
clusion Flies(Tweety) to be drawn from the premise Bird(Tweety), but the conclusion no
longerholdsif Abnormal (Tweety)isasserted.
1
MODEL Circumscription can be viewed as an example of a model preference logic. In such
PREFERENCE
logics,asentenceisentailed(withdefaultstatus)ifitistrueinallpreferredmodelsofthe KB,
as opposed to the requirement of truth in all models in classical logic. For circumscription,
one modelispreferred toanother ifithas fewerabnormal objects.9 Letusseehow thisidea
worksinthecontextofmultipleinheritance insemanticnetworks. Thestandardexamplefor
which multiple inheritance is problematic is called the Nixon diamond. It arises from the
observation that Richard Nixon was both a Quaker (and hence by default a pacifist) and a
Republican (andhencebydefault notapacifist). Wecanwritethisasfollows:
Republican(Nixon) Quaker(Nixon).
Republican(x) Abnormal (x) Pacifist(x).
2
Quaker(x) Abnormal (x) Pacifist(x).
3
If we circumscribe Abnormal and Abnormal , there are two preferred models: one in
2 3
which Abnormal (Nixon)and Pacifist(Nixon)holdandoneinwhich Abnormal (Nixon)
2 3
and Pacifist(Nixon)hold. Thus,thecircumscriptivereasonerremainsproperly agnosticas
to whether N