ive literal is known as a definite or positive clause; else it is called a he empty clause is a negative Horn clause. In any resolution step at least one of the parent clauses clause. re interested in deriving a clause G from a set of Horn clauses S. In the resolution method we add - uses. If a clause C is derivable from a set of Horn clauses S, we say that SHC. a set of Horn clauses and a negative clause C that can be derived by applying resolution steps, onstruct a derivation in which every resolvent is a negative clause (Brachman and Levesque, 20 e of the derivation of the null clause as well, because it too is a negative clause. We illustrate how th taking a small example. In Figure 12.16, the derivation on the left has a positive resolvent. The deri derives the same final clause, but does not contain a positive reso vent. Such a derivation uses one nd one positive clause to resolve at each step. Given a derivation of a negative clause with 's one can always transform it by eliminating the lowest positive resolvent as shown in the fig the process till all resolvents are negative. Ev C LF? v v 2D Dv aEvC aFv C vb -Dv 4 y, vA 4 .16 The figure on dberlefithasim positive resolvent, shown in the shaded box. The equivalent derivation on the right has on One can transform a derivation with positive resolvents to one with only negative resolvents by picking the lowest positive re: ransformation like the one above. -17 An SLD derivation with Horn clauses starts with a negative and a positive clause from the given set of clauses. At each sta resolved with a positive clause from the original set. Shaded boxes represent positive clauses and the blank ones negative clause: one negative clause from the original set will ever be used. If one is to derive the null clause, then th clause must be the negated goal, because that is what leads to the contradiction. All other clauses or definite. A definite clause with only a positive literal is a fact, and a definite clause with neg