n object but not to push it. Solids can also be particulate (like sand), in which case they share many of the same behaviors as liquids. Gases are also similar to liquids. Also, some solids soak up liquid (sponges, dirt), while others are watertight. We can see that common sense knowledge representation has a strongly taxonomic flavor. A lot of work has been done in these and other areas, but much more also remains to be worked out. 19.3 MEMORY ORGANIZATION Memory is central to common sense behavior. Human memory contains an immense amount of knowledge about the world. So far, we have only discussed a tiny fraction of that knowledge. Memory is also the basis for learning. A system that cannot learn cannot, in practice, possess common sense. A complete theory of human memory has not yet been discovered, but we do have a number of facts at our disposal. Some of these facts come from neurobiology (e.g., [Kandel and Schwartz, 1985]), while others are psychological in nature. Computer models of neural memory (such as the Hopfield network of Chapter 18) are interesting, but they do not serve as theories about how memory is used in everyday, common sense reasoning. Psychology and AI seek to address these issues. Psychological studies suggest several distinctions in human memory. One distinction is between shortterm memory (STM) and long-term memory (LTM). We know that a person can only hold a few items at a time in STM, but the capacity of LTM is very large. LTM storage is also fairly permanent. The production system is one computer model of the STM-LTM structure. Perceptual information is stored directly in STM, also called working memory. Production rules, stored in LTM, match themselves against items in STM. Productions fire, modify STM, and repeat. LIM is often divided into episodic memory and semantic memory. Episodic memory contains information about past personal experiences, usually stored from an autobiographical point of view. For example, acollege graduation, a 