usually known asa pictorial
PICTORIAL structuremodel.
STRUCTUREMODEL
Recallourassumptionthatweknowwhatweneedtoknowaboutwhatthepersonlooks
like. If weare matching a person in a single image, the most useful feature forscoring seg-
ment matches turns out tobe color. Texture features don t work wellin mostcases, because
foldsonlooseclothingproducestrongshadingpatternsthatoverlaytheimagetexture. These
Section24.5. Object Recognition from Structural Information 959
Figure24.23 Apictorialstructuremodelevaluatesamatchbetweenasetofimagerect-
angles and a cardboard person (shown on the left) by scoring the similarity in appearance
betweenbodysegmentsandimagesegmentsandthespatialrelationsbetweentheimageseg-
ments.Generally,amatchisbetteriftheimagesegmentshaveabouttherightappearanceand
areinabouttherightplacewithrespecttooneanother. Theappearancemodelusesaverage
colors forhair, head, torso, and upperand lower arms and legs. The relevantrelations are
shownasarrows.Ontheright,thebestmatchforaparticularimage,obtainedusingdynamic
programming. The match is a fair estimate of the configuration of the body. Figure from
Felzenszwalband Huttenlocher(2000)(cid:2)c IEEE.
patternsarestrongenoughtodisruptthetruetextureofthe cloth. Incurrentwork, typically
reflects the need for the ends of the segments to be reasonably close together, but there are
usually no constraints on the angles. Generally, we don t know what a person looks like,
and must build a model of segment appearances. We call the description of what a person
APPEARANCE looksliketheappearancemodel. Ifwemustreporttheconfiguration ofapersoninasingle
MODEL
image, wecan start with apoorly tuned appearance model, estimate configuration with this,
then re-estimate appearance, and so on. In video, wehave many frames of the same person,
andthiswillrevealtheirappearance.
24.5.2 Coherent appearance: Tracking people invideo
Tracking people in video is an important practical problem. If we could reliably report the
location of arms, legs, 