n World Model. The number of possible structures will usually be greater now than it was in Program 2 because so much more knowledge is being used. Sometimes, though, it may be possible to consider fewer possibilities by using the additional knowledge to filter the alternatives. Shopping Script: roles: C (customer), S (salesperson) props: M (merchandise), D (dollars) location: L (a store) To answer a question, do the following: 1. Convert the question to structured form as in Program 2 but use World Model i T necessary to resolve any ambiguities that may arise. 2. Match this structured form against Integrated Text. 3. Return as the answer those parts of the text that match the requested segment of the question. Examples Ql: Same as Program 2. Q2: Same as Program 2. Q3: Now this question can be answered. The shopping script is instantiated for this text, and because of the last sentence, the path through step 14 of the script is the one that is used in forming the representation of this text. When the script is instantiated M is bound to the structure representing the red coat (because the script says that M is what gets taken home and the text says that a red coat is what got taken home). After the script has been instantiated, Integrated Text contains several events.that are taken from the script but that are not described in the original text, including the event Mary buys a red coat (from step IO of the script). Thus, using the integrated text as the basis for question answering allows the program to respond She bought a red coat. Comments This program is more powerful than either of the first two because it exploits more knowledge. Thus, like the final program in each of the other two sequences we have examined, it is exploiting what we call AI techniques. But, again, a few caveats are in order. Even the techniques we have exploited in this program are not adequate for complete English question answering. The most important thing that is missing from this progra