ere pair; of nonsense words, a stimulus-response pair, were first learned throuh Sec. 1.4 -Al and Related Fields repetitive presentations (in different orders). The performance component was then used to demonstrate how well responses to the stimuli were learned. Some significant Al events of the 1960s include the following. 1961-65 A. L. Samuel developed a program which learned to play checkers at a master's level. 1965 J. A. Robinson introduced resolution as an inference method in - logic. 1965 Work on DENDRAL was begun at Stanford University by J. Lederberg. Edward Feigenbaum. and Carl Djerassi. DENDRAL is an expert system which discovers molecular structures given only infomation of the constituents of the compound and mass spectra data. DENDRAL was the first knowle bdgaes-ed expert system to be developed. 196$ Work on MACSYMA was initiated at MIT by Carl Engfemah. William Martin. and Joel Moses. MACSYMA is a large interactive program which solves numerous types of mathematical problems. Written in LISP. MACSYMA was a continuation of earlier work on SIN, an indefinite integration solving program. References on early work in Al include Mc Corduck's Machines %%'ho Think (1979). and Newell and Simon' s Human Problem Solvini,' (1972). 1.4 Al AND RELATED FIELDS Fields which are closely related to Al and overlap somewhat include engineering. particularly electrical and mechanical engineering, linguistics, psychology. cogtiitie science, and philosophy.. Robotics is also regarded by some researchers as a branch of Al. but this view is not common. Many researchers consider robotics as a separate interdisciplinary field which combines concepts and techniques from Al. electiical. mechanical, and optical engineering. Psychologists are concerned with the workings of the mind, the mental and emotional processes that drive human behavior. As such, we should not he supriscd to learn that researchers in Al have much in common with psschologists. t)urii the past 20 years Al has '