istinguish carefully
betweentheproposition thatthetaxiisblueandtheproposition thatitappearsblue.)
b. Whatifyouknowthat9outof10Atheniantaxisaregreen?
13.22 Textcategorization isthe taskofassigning agivendocument toone ofafixedsetof
categories on the basis of the text it contains. Naive Bayes models are often used for this
task. Inthesemodels,thequeryvariable isthedocument category, andthe effect variables
arethepresenceorabsenceofeachwordinthelanguage; theassumption isthatwordsoccur
independently indocuments, withfrequencies determinedbythedocumentcategory.
a. Explain precisely how such a model can be constructed, given as training data a set
ofdocuments thathavebeenassigned tocategories.
b. Explainprecisely howtocategorize anewdocument.
c. Istheconditional independence assumption reasonable? Discuss.
13.23 In our analysis of the wumpus world, we used the fact that each square contains a
pit withprobability 0.2, independently ofthe contents of the othersquares. Suppose instead
that exactly N 5 pits are scattered at random among the N squares other than 1,1 . Are
the variables P and P still independent? What isthe joint distribution P(P ,...,P )
i,j k,l 1,1 4,4
now? Redothecalculation fortheprobabilities ofpitsin 1,3 and 2,2 .
13.24 Redotheprobabilitycalculationforpitsin 1,3 and 2,2 ,assumingthateachsquare
contains a pit with probability 0.01, independent of the other squares. What can you say
abouttherelativeperformance ofalogicalversusaprobabilistic agentinthiscase?
13.25 Implement a hybrid probabilistic agent for the wumpus world, based on the hybrid
agentin Figure7.20andtheprobabilistic inference procedure outlined inthischapter.
14
PROBABILISTIC
REASONING
In which we explain how to build network models to reason under uncertainty
according tothelawsofprobability theory.
Chapter 13 introduced the basic elements of probability theory and noted the importance of
independence and conditional independence relationships in simplifying probabilistic repre-
sentations of