 not need to be told about the platform, but that he must be informed, with an imperative statement, to remove the pump with a wrench in the toolbox. INTENDS)john. REMOVE(purnp platform)) LOCATION(john) LOCATION (platform) DO(john. REMOVE)pump platform)) DO) rob. REQUEST) john, REMOVE)purnp platform))) DO)rob, COMMAND)john, REMOVE)pomp platform))) DO)rob, l NFORM(john (TOOL)wrench)))) DO(rob, 1NFORM)john LOCATION )wrench) LOCATION (too l-b x))) The next step is for Rob to plan speech acts to realize the request. This req.ires linguistic knowledge of the structure to use for an imperative request. in this case, that the sentence should have the form V NP ()* (recall that stands for optional repetition). Words to complete' the output string are then selected and ordered accordingly. - DO(rob REOUEST)joho, REMOVE(pump platform))) DO(rob c0MMAND(iohn. REMOVE)pump platform))) OO(rob INEORM)john, TOOL(wrench))) DO)rob l NFORMljohn, LOCATION(wrench) = LOCATION (tool -box))) 262 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 This leads to the generation of a sentence with the following tree structure. /\V V IPP I I remove DET N NP the po,,tp with DET the wrenth P NP in DEl N the toolbo The overall process of planning and formulating the final sentence "Remove the pump with the wrench in the toolbox" is very involved and detailed. It requires planning and plan verificaticn for content, selecting the proper structures, selecting senses, mood, tense, the actual words, and a final ordering. All of the steps must be constrained toward the realization of the (possibly multiple) goals set forth. It is truly amazing we accomplish such acts with so little effort. Generation from Conceptual Dependency Structures Niel Goldman (Schank et al.. 1973) developed a generation component called BABEL which was used as part of several language understanding systems built by Schank and his students SAM. MARGIE. QUALM. and SO on). This component worked in conjunction with an inference component to determi