lowing interesting experiment was discussed in a BBC program on vision Almost a third of our entire brain is devoted to vision, but there s a limit to how much our eyes observe. In a simple experiment in a busy shopping centre, Nigel asks shoppers for directions and then switches places with someone else while the shopper is distracted. Most people failed to notice the switch and carried on giving directions. Dr Richard Wiseman of the University of Hertfordshire explains that people s brains weren't paying attention to who was asking the questions because they were just concentrating on getting the directions right. So, ultimately, we only see what our brains want us to see. This chapter reinforces our hypothesis that knowledge is a key to solving large problems. We use knowledge about our world to understand what we see (there are many who say that it is us who in fact create these worlds in our minds), and we use our knowledge accumulated from experience to solve problems. We shall focus on both these approaches in later chapters. a x Exercises 1. Define the AND OR search space for the task of building a house. How will the heuristic function be defined? 2. A.user interested in designing a house may have certain preferences like having an east facing kitchen or a balcony. How can these preferences be incorporated by modifying the heuristic function during problem solving? Figure 6.24 A small And-Or graph. 3. The graph in Figure 6.24 represents an AND-OR graph. The terminal nodes are labelled SOLVED (depicted by double line) and have zero cost. The arcs represent the cost of transforming the problem. Values associated with nodes are heuristic estimates of solving that node. Simulate the exploration of the graph by the AO algorithm till it terminates. Show how the graph looks at the end of each cycle. Assume a FUTILITY value of 45. Clearly mark the final solution (by double-lined arcs) in the final graph. What is the solution that is going to be found by AO on the a