g signal samples. This structure represents some kind of continuity in the domain that generates the signal, thus creating the possibility of identifying components that are different from other components. Consider for example a scene in which a clump of trees can be seen on a hillside against a blue sky. It is the fact that the signal from a tree tends to be similar as compared to a signal from the sky part of the scene that facilitates learning. The human brain is organized in such a way that sensory inputs from different regions can be found to be mapped to well defined different regions of the cortex. The following properties of such computational maps have been identified (Haykin, 2009). In each region in the map, the neurons process similar kinds of information, for example arising from the sense of touch. Such information may originate from different parts of the body. At each stage, each piece of information is kept into its proper context. Neurons handling closely related pieces of information are located physically close so that they can interact with short, synaptic connections. One can think of such maps as reducing higher dimensional information onto the cortical surface. This has been a motivation for investigating neural networks that are known as self organizing maps. A well studied version is the Kohonen Network. Kohonen Networks Interestingly, one can devise an unsupervised strategy for learning in feedforward networks in what are called Kohonen networks. Figure 18.30 shows an example network in which the output layer, also known as the competitive layer, has three neurons. Layers of such neurons are hypothesized to occur in our visual systems, supported by simulation results (Linsker, 1986). Each output neuron represents a class or a cluster in the space of patterns of four values each, captured in the input layer. The basic idea is the neurons in the output layer compete for activation. Instead of assigning a supervisor designated class label, t