-
thing factually new from the example. Theagent could have derived the example from what
it already knew, although that might have required an unreasonable amount of computation.
EBL is now viewed as a method for converting first-principles theories into useful, special-
purpose knowledge. Wedescribealgorithms for EB Lin Section19.3.
The situation of our traveler in Brazil is quite different, for she cannot necessarily ex-
plain why Fernando speaks the way he does, unless she knows her papal bulls. Moreover,
the same generalization would be forthcoming from a traveler entirely ignorant of colonial
history. The relevant prior knowledge in this case is that, within any given country, most
people tend to speak the same language; on the other hand, Fernando is not assumed to be
thenameofall Brazilians because thiskindofregularity doesnotholdfornames. Similarly,
thefreshman physics student alsowould behardputtoexplain theparticular values that she
discoversfortheconductance anddensityofcopper. Shedoesknow,however,thatthemate-
rial of which an object is composed and its temperature together determine its conductance.
Ineachcase,thepriorknowledge Background concernstherelevanceofasetoffeaturesto
RELEVANCE
thegoal predicate. Thisknowledge, together withtheobservations, allowstheagent toinfer
anew,generalrulethatexplains theobservations:
Hypothesis Descriptions Classifications ,
(19.4)
Background Descriptions Classifications Hypothesis .
RELEVANCE-BASED Wecallthiskindofgeneralization relevance-based learning,or RBL(although thenameis
LEARNING
not standard). Notice that whereas RB Ldoes make use ofthe content ofthe observations, it
doesnotproducehypothesesthatgobeyondthelogicalcontentofthebackgroundknowledge
and the observations. It is a deductive form of learning and cannot by itself account for the
creation ofnewknowledgestarting fromscratch.
In the case of the medical student watching the expert, we assume that the student s
prior knowledge is sufficient to infer the pati