ctive yel Io Adjective FFiigguurree 12.6 Typical entries in a lexicon 177 -- Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 242 categories and so on). and all ssords contained within the lexicon listed within the to hich the belong The organization and entries of a lexicon will vary from one implementation to another, but the are usually made up of variable length data structures such as lists or records arranged in alphabetical order. The word order may also he given in t Crflis of usage frequency so that frequently used words Uke a, the, and an will appear at the beginning of the list facilitating the search. Access to the w!rds in.i he facilitated by indexing. with binary searches, hd h i n. or combinations of these methods A lexicon may also he partitioned to eneral. frequentiv used words and domain specific contain a base lexicon set of g component' of words Transition Networks ed to represent formal and natural Transition networks are another popular method us are based on the application of directed graphs (digraphs) language structures They and finite state automata. A transition network consist S of a number of nodes and labeled arcs. The nodes represent different states in traversing a sentence. and the arcs represent rules or test conditions required to make the transition from one state to the-next. A path through a transition network corresponds to a permissible sequence of word types for a given grammar. Thus, if a transition network can be successfully' traversed, it will have recognized a permissible sentence structure. For example, a network used to recognize a sentence consisting of a determiner, a noun and a verb ("The child runs'') would he represented by the three-node graph as follows. deierm ner noun verb 3N4 Starting at node NI. the transition from node NI to N2 will be made if a the first input word found. If successful, state N2 is entered. The determiner is transition from N2 to N3 can then he made if a noun is found next. The final transition (from