d that no bounded competitive ratio is possible for exploring a general
graph. Papadimitriouand Yannakakis(1991)examinedthequestionoffindingpathstoagoal
ingeometricpath-planningenvironments(whereallactionsarereversible). Theyshowedthat
a small competitive ratio is achievable with square obstacles, but with general rectangular
obstacles noboundedratiocanbeachieved. (See Figure4.20.) The LRTA algorithm was developed by Korf (1990) as part of an investigation into
real-time search for environments in which the agent must act after searching for only a
REAL-TIMESEARCH fixed amount of time (a common situation in two-player games). LRTA is in fact a special
caseofreinforcementlearningalgorithmsforstochasticenvironments(Bartoetal.,1995). Its
policyofoptimismunderuncertainty alwaysheadfortheclosestunvisitedstate canresult
in an exploration pattern that is less efficient in the uninformed case than simple depth-first
search (Koenig, 2000). Dasguptaetal.(1994) show thatonline iterative deepening search is
optimally efficient for finding a goal in a uniform tree with no heuristic information. Sev- eral informed variants on the LRTA theme have been developed with different methods for
searching and updating within the known portion of the graph (Pemberton and Korf, 1992).
As yet, there is no good understanding of how to find goals with optimal efficiency when
usingheuristic information.
EXERCISES
4.1 Givethenameofthealgorithm thatresults fromeachofthefollowingspecialcases:
a. Localbeamsearchwithk 1.
b. Localbeamsearchwithoneinitialstateandnolimitonthenumberofstatesretained.
c. Simulatedannealing with T 0atalltimes(andomittingthetermination test).
d. Simulatedannealing with T atalltimes.
e. Geneticalgorithm withpopulation size N 1.
158 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
4.2 Exercise 3.16 considers the problem of building railway tracks under the assumption
that pieces fit exactly with no slack. Now consider the real problem, in which pieces don t
fitexactly butallow forupto10deg