point, and a duration defined by these points. Intervals can be related to other intervals, as we saw in the last paragraph. It tums out that there are exactly thirteen ways in which two non-empty time 412 Artificial Intelligence intervals can relate to one another. Figure 19.3 shows these relationships. As is clear from the figure, there are actually only seven distinct relationships: the relationship of equality plus six other relationships that have their own inverses, Y _ i IS-BEFORE/ HIS-AFTER j i i i+ i MEETS j i1S-MET-BY j T= = fj OVERLAPS j i1S-OVERLAPPED-BY j i i STARTS j i1S-STARTED-BY j i oe, i1S-DURING j i CONTAINS j j i a 7 i ENDSj i IS-ENDED-BY j i ) i EQUALS j Fig. 19.3 Thirteen Possible Relationships between Two Time Intervals Now we can state rules for drawing inferences about time intervals. For example, common sense tells us that the IS-BEFORE relation is transitive. That is, if event @ occurred before event b and if event b occurred before event c, then event a must have occurred before event c. How many such axioms will we need before we capture all of our basic common sense notions of time? We can greatly simplify matters if we define some interval relationships in terms of other more basic ones. In fact, we can reduce all the relations in Fig. 19.3 to the single relation MEETS, Here is the definition of the relation 1S-BEFORE: i [S-BEFORE j = 34 : (i MEETS k) A (k MEETS j) In other words, if i IS-BEFORE j, then there must be some x in between that MEETS both i and j. When the rest of the relations are defined similarly, MEETS becomes the only primitive relation, and we can write ali our common sense axioms in terms of it. Our first axiom states that points where intervals MEET are unique: Vij: (Ak: @ MEETS &) A (j MEETS 4) 3 (WI: @ MEETS /) (j MEETS 1)) In other words, i and j cannot MEET & at different points in time, so every even] has a unique starting time. We can write a similar axiom to state that every event has a unique ending time. Ne