esent anexponential numberofformsasasinglerule.
In the bottom of Figure 23.7 wesee (part of) an augmented grammarfor the language
E , which handles case agreement, subject verb agreement, and head words. We have just
2
one NP category, but NP(c,pn,head) has three augmentations: c is a parameter for case,
pn is a parameter for person and number, and head is a parameter for the head word of
the phrase. The other categories also are augmented with heads and other arguments. Let s
consideroneruleindetail:
S(head) NP(Sbj,pn,h) VP(pn,head).
Thisruleiseasiesttounderstand right-to-left: whenan NPanda VPareconjoined theyform
an S, but only if the NPhas the subjective (Sbj) case and the person and number (pn) of the
NP and VP are identical. If that holds, then we have an S whose head is the same as the
headofthe VP.Notetheheadofthe NP,denoted bythedummyvariable h,isnotpartofthe
augmentationofthe S.Thelexicalrulesfor E fillinthevaluesoftheparametersandarealso
2
bestreadright-to-left. Forexample,therule
Pronoun(Sbj,1S,I) I
saysthat I canbeinterpretedasa Pronouninthesubjectivecase,first-personsingular,with
head I. For simplicity we have omitted the probabilities for these rules, but augmentation
does work with probabilities. Augmentation can also work with automated learning mecha-
nisms. Petrov and Klein (2007c) show how a learning algorithm can automatically split the
NP category into NP and NP .
S O
23.3.4 Semantic interpretation
To show how to add semantics to a grammar, we start with an example that is simpler than
English: thesemanticsofarithmeticexpressions. Figure23.8showsagrammarforarithmetic
expressions, whereeachruleisaugmentedwithavariableindicatingthesemanticinterpreta-
tionofthephrase. Thesemanticsofadigitsuchas 3 isthedigititself. Thesemanticsofan
expression suchas 3 4 istheoperator applied tothesemantics ofthephrase 3 and
Section23.3. Augmented Grammarsand Semantic Interpretation 901
Exp(x) Exp(x )Operator(op)Exp(x ) x Apply(op,x ,x ) 1 2 1 2
Exp(x) (Exp(x) )
Exp