encing programs. The whole process is a series of transformations from the basic speech sounds to a complete set of internal representation structures. Understanding written language or text is easier than understanding speech. To understand speech, a program must have all the capabilities of a text understanding program plus the facilities needed to map spoken sounds (often corrupted by noise) into textual form. In this chapter, we focus on the easier problem, that of natural language understanding from textual input and information processing. The process of translating speech into written text is considered in Chapter. 13 under Pattern Recognition and the process of generating text is considered later in this chapter. General Approaches to Natural Language Understanding Essentially, there have been three different approaches taken in the development of natural language understanding programs. (1) the use of keyword and pattern matching, (2) combined syntactic (structural) and semantic directed analysis, and (3).comparing and matching the input to real world situations (scenario representations). The keyword and pattern matching approach is the simplest. This approach was first used in programs such as ELIZA described in Chapter 10. It is based on the use of sentence templates which contain key words or phrases such as - my mother ," "I am . and, "1 don't like ," that are matched against input sentences. Each input template has associated with it one or more output templates, one of which is used to produce a response to the given input. Appropriate word substitutions are also made from the input to the output to produce the correct person and tense in the response (I and me into you to give replies like "Why are you "). The advantage of this approach is that ungrammatical, but meaningful sentences are still accepted. The disadvantage is that no actual knowledge structures are created; so the program does not really understand. The third approach is based on the u