e values from the different time intervals defined above. Then, the probabilities are described by a set of statements of the form, P(FailTimeC t)) p; The ordered set of values p; ... py then defines a probability distribution P (FailTimeC) for the random variable FailTimeC. Figure 17.25 depicts a possible probability distribution for FailTimeC for a value of N 6. The values are 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.2, 0.1 . The given probability distribution assigns zero probability to the component failing in the first year (time interval), after which, the probability of failing increases for the next two years, peaking at year 4 and then declining. The figure also shows the cumulative probabilities of the component failing within the longer time interval. The probability that the component will fail in the first K years is given by 5 7 ; x P(FailTimeC t)) Yy ; x p;. These probabilities are depicted by bars with dashes in Figure 17.25. Observe that the cumulative probability in the last interval is 1. The above formulation of probabilities of failure of the component is over a discrete space in which the random variable can take values from a discrete space. In practice, many problems involve continuous space. In this example, we can model time as a continuous variable and describe the probability of failure as a function of this real values time. In doing so, the probability distribution is replaced by a oot oat oa oa JE IE 0.0 j EL, fc2 ty ts te Figure 17.25 A probability distribution over six time intervals. The shaded bars show the probability of failure in each time interval. The bars with dashes depict the cumulative probability over time. probability density function. Figure 17.26 depicts a possible density function P(t) for component failure, corresponding to the mass function on Figure 17.25. Observe that we have extended the life of the component indefinitely in the figure. The probability density function must also satisfy two conditions. P()20 and Jo P(dt 1 That is, th