Heckerman.) Thisexerciseconcernsthe Almanac Game,which
is used by decision analysts to calibrate numeric estimation. For each of the questions that
follow, give your best guess of the answer, that is, a number that you think is as likely to be
too high as it is to be too low. Also give your guess at a 25th percentile estimate, that is, a
number that you think has a 25 chance of being too high, and a 75 chance of being too
low. Dothesameforthe75thpercentile. (Thus,youshould givethreeestimates inall low,
median,andhigh foreachquestion.)
a. Numberofpassengers whoflewbetween New Yorkand Los Angelesin1989.
b. Populationof Warsawin1992.
c. Yearinwhich Coronadodiscovered the Mississippi River.
d. Numberofvotesreceivedby Jimmy Carterinthe1976presidential election.
e. Ageoftheoldestlivingtree,asof2002.
f. Heightofthe Hoover Daminfeet.
g. Numberofeggsproduced in Oregonin1985.
h. Numberof Buddhistsintheworldin1992.
i. Numberofdeathsdueto AID Sinthe United Statesin1981.
j. Numberof U.S.patentsgranted in1901.
The correct answers appear after the last exercise of this chapter. From the point of view of
decisionanalysis,theinteresting thingisnothowcloseyourmedianguessescametothereal
answers, but rather how often the real answer came within your 25 and 75 bounds. If it
was about half the time, then your bounds are accurate. But if you re like most people, you
will be more sure of yourself than you should be, and fewer than half the answers will fall
withinthebounds. Withpractice,youcancalibrateyourselftogiverealisticbounds,andthus
bemoreusefulinsupplyinginformationfordecisionmaking. Trythissecondsetofquestions
andseeifthereisanyimprovement:
a. Yearofbirthof Zsa Zsa Gabor.
b. Maximumdistance from Marstothesuninmiles.
c. Valueindollarsofexportsofwheatfromthe United Statesin1992.
d. Tonshandledbytheportof Honolulu in1991.
e. Annualsalaryindollarsofthegovernorof California in1993.
f. Populationof San Diegoin1990.
g. Yearinwhich Roger Williamsfounded Providence, Rhode Island.
h. Heighto