, facts, stories, and text books to pass them on to others. The human species has accumulated knowledge over generations. We pass on to our offspring not only our genes, but also knowledge in various forms. This ability to build up experience in a cumulative manner has resulted in the human species dominating all others. Our knowledge of our surroundings is evolved to such an extent that we are even able to contemplate the harmful effects human civilization is having on the environment and ecology in the longer timeframe, so that the actions that will avoid a catastrophe (and destruction of the species) are still on the OPEN list of humankind. In our quest for randomized search algorithms, we also ran into biological systems that can be seen as employing search. We also learnt that such randomized methods often work well when we operate with populations of candidates. This led us to emergent systems, where populations of simple elements can be seen as a more complex system. Human brains and ant colonies are examples of such complex systems. At a higher level a research institute, a manufacturing company, or an academic department can be seen to be more complex than the individuals that make it up. Music lovers would also recognize the fact that a musical note by itself is simple in nature, but it is a combination of notes that makes up a melody or a symphony. The point we make in this chapter is that hard problems cannot be solved by brute force. One needs either to have good heuristic functions to guide search, or one needs to share and exploit experience. Either way, the tool to cut through the combinatorial explosion has to do with knowledge. In later chapters, we will look at knowledge and experience in more detail. Meanwhile, in the next chapter we turn our attention to those approaches to problems that can guarantee optimality. We explore the use of heuristic knowledge to search for optimal solutions, and push the envelope of the size of problems that can be s