has picked up a knight from the chessboard, she is holding the knight, and that the knight is no longer on the board. Such knowledge, while it does mirror facts, is not useful for the task of solving retrograde analysis chess problems. One could use it to infer for example that if the player has made a move then she must have picked up the piece and must have been holding it, and so on, provided that the context is that of playing on a physical chessboard. Such inferences, though interesting from the commonsense reasoning in Al perspective, and perhaps useful in solving a murder intrigue in which pawns from a chess set are laced with poison, are not likely to enamour the chess enthusiast. Thezidssibility that fluents can change value, can however lead to considerable problems for deduction in an open world. In particular deductive, ri oning is compelled to assume that all change that is happening is the one that is described explicitly or that logically follows from what is explicitly described. We shall look at the Event Calculus with an example that requires such an assumption. 13.5.3 A Bicycle Story Consider the following narrative. Nikhil filled up air in his bicycle. He intends to go to the restaurant at 9 a.m., eat his breakfast there at 9.30, and go to cricket practice at 10 a.m. . We assume that people do what they intend to if they can. This is the sense of intend that is used in the Belief Desire Intention model of agency (see Chapter 11). Can we then infer that Nikhil is at cricket practice at 11 a.m.? Let us state the facts in Event Calculus. We use time points t,, to, tg and so on, and ordering relations between them. We use lower case words for constants and upper case for variables. For the sake of simplicity we assume actions are instantaneous. Story N, . HoldsAt(loc(nikhil53, home86), fo) . Happens(fillAir(nikhil53, bicycle39), t) . Happens(planToRide(nikhil53, bicycle39, home86, restaurant66), t3) . Happens(planToEat(nikhil53, restaurant66), ts) Ha