, referred to as multi-valued planning tasks (MPT) in the associated literature. The program also handles derived predicates and conditional effects, both in a similar manner. Derived predicates are predicates that are not modified by actions, but depend upon the values of some other predicates. This relation is captured in Fast Downward by axioms of the form cond, v, d , where cond is a pattern or condition defined on some variables, and when the condition holds in a state, the derived predicate v gets a value d. The same format used in the effects of an action describes conditional effects. Helmert believes that the STRIPS like representation obscures important causal structure in the domain, and that ignoring the delete lists for estimating the heuristics, ignores some vital information. Fast Downward first converts problems in PDDL into the MPT representation described below. Then, it compiles state transition and causal dependencies into separate graphs, and computes the heuristic values over these graphs. Finally, it uses the heuristic value to guide forward search. A planning problem in the MPT representation is a 5-tuple V, So, s , D, A where' , Vis a set of (multi-valued) variables v each with its domain Dy. The variables are partitioned into two sets. One containing fluents, including numeric fluents, which are changed in the effects of operators in A. The second, called derived variables, are determined by other variables, and are computed using derived axioms in D. The domains of derived variables contain an undefined value L. A partial variable assignment or a partial state over V is a function son some subset of V, such that s(v)e D, wherever s(v) is defined. So is a state over V called an initial state. s is a partial state over V called the goal. D is a set of axioms over V. Axioms are of the form cond, v, d where cond is a partial variable assignment called the condition or body of the axiom, v is a derived variable, and d D, is a value of the varia