 and texts available in the literature. We offer a few representative references here which are recent and have extensive bibliographies: (Zadeh, 1977, 1981, 1983), (Kandel, 1982). (Gupta et al., (1985), and (Zimmerman. 1985). 5.7 SUMMARY Commonsense reasoning is nonmonotonic in nature. It requires the ability to reason with incomplete and uncertain knowledge, replacing outmoded or erroneous beliefs with new ones to better model current situations. In this chapter, we have considered various methods of representing and dealing with uncertainty and inconsistencies. We first described truth maintenance systems which permit nonmonotonic forms of reasoning by maintaining a consistent, but changing, belief set. The type of TMS we considered in detail, was the justification based TMS or JTMS. It maintained a belief network consisting of nodes representing facts and rules. Attached to each node was a justification, a data Structure which characterized the In or Out status of the node and its support. The JTMS maintains the current belief set for the problem solver, but does not perform inferencing functions. That is the'jol, of the JE. Other methods of dealing with nonmonotonic reasoning include default reasoning and CWA. In both cases, assumptions are made regarding knowledge or beliefs which are not directly provable. In CWA, if P can not be proved, then assume P Chap. S Exercises ios is true. Default reasoning is based on the use of typical assumptions about an object or class of objects which are plausible. The assumptions are regarded as valid unless new contrary information is learned. Predicate completion and circumscription are methods which restrict the values a predicate or group of predicates may assume. They allow the predicates to take on only those values the KB says they must assume. Both methods are based on the use of completion formulas. Like CWA, they are also a form of nonmonotonic reasoning. Modal logics extend the expressiveness of classical logics by