pectrumwouldbeobservedforeach,comparingthis
with the actual spectrum. As one might expect, this is intractable for even moderate-sized
molecules. The DENDRAL researchers consulted analytical chemists and found that they
workedbylookingforwell-knownpatternsofpeaksinthespectrumthatsuggested common
substructures inthe molecule. Forexample, the following rule isused torecognize aketone
(C O)subgroup (whichweighs28):
iftherearetwopeaksatx andx suchthat
1 2
(a)x x M 28(M isthemassofthewholemolecule);
1 2
Section1.3. The Historyof Artificial Intelligence 23
(b)x 28isahighpeak;
1
(c)x 28isahighpeak;
2
(d)Atleastoneofx andx ishigh.
1 2
thenthereisaketonesubgroup
Recognizing thatthe molecule contains aparticular substructure reduces thenumberofpos-
siblecandidates enormously. DENDRAL waspowerfulbecause
Alltherelevanttheoreticalknowledgetosolvetheseproblemshasbeenmappedoverfrom
its general form in the spectrum prediction component ( first principles ) to efficient
specialforms( cookbookrecipes ). (Feigenbaumetal.,1971)
The significance of DENDRAL was that it was the first successful knowledge-intensive sys-
tem: its expertise derived from large numbers of special-purpose rules. Later systems also
incorporated themainthemeof Mc Carthy s Advice Takerapproach the cleanseparation of
theknowledge(intheformofrules)fromthereasoning component.
With this lesson in mind, Feigenbaum and others at Stanford began the Heuristic Pro-
gramming Project (HPP) to investigate the extent to which the new methodology of expert
systems could be applied to other areas of human expertise. The next major effort was in
EXPERTSYSTEMS
theareaofmedical diagnosis. Feigenbaum, Buchanan, and Dr.Edward Shortliffe developed
MYCIN to diagnose blood infections. With about 450 rules, MYCIN was able to perform
as well as some experts, and considerably better than junior doctors. It also contained two
major differences from DENDRAL. First, unlike the DENDRAL rules, no general theoretical
modelexistedfromwhichthe MYC