 own, giving rise to a complex network of kinds of things, when we add elements other than humans to our universe, both material and nonmaterial. Extreme examples are alluded to by noun phrases like the market , the ecosystem , a spiral galaxy , the diaspora , the clergy , air pressure and the umwelt . These terms clearly stand for something that is an abstraction of aggregation at some level. Both, the abstraction hierarchy and the aggregation hierarchy, are forms of reification in which we create symbols that stand for something we have imagined. Aggregation FIGURE 14.1 The abstraction and aggregation hierarchies. Observe that while we have depicted a lowermost layer in the abstraction hierarchy, we have not done so for the aggregation hierarchy. The base in the abstraction hierarchy corresponds to elements (composite or otherwise) that exist in the domain. These are shown in shaded circles or their aggregations. The base of the aggregation hierarchy likewise should correspond to the smallest level of existence, where the element is atomic in the sense of being indivisible. If we could define this base then the elements in that set would be the real domain, and everything else would be composite. However, the definition of what is the base or the domain is really a matter of choice, as far as representation and reasoning is concerned. It is the problem solver who has to decide as to what is the basic (atomic) unit in the domain. Fundamentally, we still do not know what is, if there is, a basic unit of matter from which other stuff is composed. A similar difficulty arises if we talk about ideas, properties, or events (remember Zeno s paradox on motion). The notion of an atom was postulated in the sixth century bc as an argument against infinite divisibility of matter (Keith, 1921), (Gangopadhyaya, 1981), and adopted by John Dalton in the early nineteenth century, but that too turned out to be a composite structure.? Nevertheless, a considerable amount of representa