say Theprobabilitythatthepatienthasacavity,giventhatshehasatoothache,is0.8. Ifwe
later learn that the patient has a history of gum disease, we can make a different statement: Theprobability that the patient has acavity, given that she has atoothache and ahistory of
gum disease, is 0.4. If we gather further conclusive evidence against a cavity, we can say Theprobability thatthepatient hasacavity, givenallwenowknow,isalmost0. Notethat
these statements do not contradict each other; each is a separate assertion about a different
knowledgestate.
13.1.2 Uncertainty andrational decisions
Consider again the A plan for getting to the airport. Suppose it gives us a 97 chance
90
of catching our flight. Does this mean it is a rational choice? Not necessarily: there might
be other plans, such as A , with higher probabilities. If it is vital not to miss the flight,
180
then itisworth risking the longer waitattheairport. What about A ,aplan that involves
1440
leavinghome24hoursinadvance? Inmostcircumstances, thisisnotagoodchoice,because
although it almost guarantees getting there on time, it involves an intolerable wait not to
mentionapossibly unpleasant dietofairportfood.
Tomakesuchchoices, anagent mustfirsthave preferences between thedifferent pos-
PREFERENCE
sible outcomes of the various plans. An outcome is a completely specified state, including
OUTCOME
suchfactorsaswhethertheagentarrivesontimeandthelengthofthewaitattheairport. We
useutilitytheorytorepresent andreason withpreferences. (Theterm utilityisusedherein
UTILITYTHEORY
the sense of the quality of being useful, not in the sense of the electric company or water
works.) Utility theory says that every state has a degree of usefulness, orutility, to an agent
andthattheagentwillpreferstateswithhigherutility.
Section13.2. Basic Probability Notation 483
Theutility of astate isrelative toan agent. Forexample, the utility ofastate in which
Whitehascheckmated Blackinagameofchessisobviouslyhighfortheagentplaying White,
butlowfort