random or static
ordering,sometimesbyafactorof1,000ormore,althoughtheresultsvarywidelydepending
ontheproblem.
The MR Vheuristic doesn t help atallinchoosing thefirstregion tocolorin Australia,
becauseinitiallyeveryregionhasthreelegalcolors. Inthiscase,thedegreeheuristiccomes
DEGREEHEURISTIC
in handy. It attempts to reduce the branching factor on future choices by selecting the vari-
able that is involved in the largest number of constraints on other unassigned variables. In
Figure 6.1, SAis the variable with highest degree, 5; the other variables have degree 2 or3,
except for T, which has degree 0. In fact, once SA is chosen, applying the degree heuris-
tic solves the problem without any false steps you can choose any consistent color at each
choice point and still arrive at a solution with no backtracking. The minimum-remaining-
Section6.3. Backtracking Searchfor CS Ps 217
values heuristic isusually amorepowerful guide, but the degree heuristic canbe useful as a
tie-breaker.
Once a variable has been selected, the algorithm must decide on the order in which to
LEAST-
examine itsvalues. Forthis, the least-constraining-value heuristic can beeffective insome
CONSTRAINING-
VALUE
cases. It prefers the value that rules out the fewest choices for the neighboring variables in
the constraint graph. For example, suppose that in Figure 6.1 we have generated the partial
assignment with WA red and NT green and that our next choice is for Q. Blue would
be a bad choice because it eliminates the last legal value left for Q s neighbor, SA. The
least-constraining-value heuristic therefore prefers red to blue. In general, the heuristic is
tryingtoleavethemaximumflexibilityforsubsequentvariableassignments. Ofcourse,ifwe
are trying to find all the solutions to a problem, not just the first one, then the ordering does
not matter because we have to consider every value anyway. The same holds if there are no
solutions totheproblem.
Whyshould variable selection be fail-first, but value sele