mple, these will be three searches. The first will search below the node labelled Outing, the second below the node labelled Movie, and the third below the node Dinner. But since they will search independently, they will not explore fruitless combinations as done by our first formulation. In general, of course, an ANDIOR search space will be much larger, with many AND and OR levels, and we will still need to adopt a heuristic approach. We look at a couple of examples where AND OR graphs have been used for building problem solvers. 6.1 SAINT One of the first Al systems that used AO graphs was SAINT, developed as part of his doctoral thesis by James Slagle (1961). SAINT was designed to solve symbolic problems in mathematics (Slagle, 1963), and was a precursor to many subsequent systems. We look at an example where SAINT solves an integral equation by searching for transformations and problem decomposition. The given problem is, x ax 9 Through a series of transformations as shown in Figure 6.4, SAINT breaks it down to three simple problems that can be solved trivially. The reverse transformations are applied to the three solutions to finally get the solution, tan (aresin x) tan(arcsin x) arcsin x Integration by parts tan (w) Figure 6.4 Symbolic integration as an AND-OR search problem (Nilsson, 1971). 6.2 Dendral One of the earliest successes of Al was the program Dendral (for Dendritic Algorithm), developed at Stanford University during 1965-1980, by a team led by Joshua Lederberg, Edward Feigenbaum, Bruce Buchanan and Carl Djerassi (Lindsay et al., 1980, 1993). The Dendral program was the first Al program to emphasize the power of specialized knowledge over generalized problem-solving methods. The objective of the program was to assist chemists in the task of determining the structure of a chemical compound. This problem is important because the chemical and physical properties of compounds are determined not just by what their constituent atoms are, but by the arrang