e sentence represented in a conceptual graph is depicted in Figure 14.39. Proposition: Proposition: (Agent) Eat (Pass) Bone FIGURE 14.39 The sentence Sue thinks that Bob believes that a dog is eating a bone as represented in a conceptual graph (figure adapted from (Sowa, 2006)). The relations are the same. Sue is the experiencer of think, and the theme of her thinking is the proposition in the box. Conceptual Graphs (CGs) are semantic networks that have a logical and linguistic basis, and which can handle quantified variables along with constants. CGs are bipartite graphs with two kind of nodes with directed arcs across them. On one side are nodes that stand for elements of a domain, along with their class labels. These are drawn as boxes. The elements may be named, unnamed, more than one, or all the elements of a class. The class labels or concepts are organized into an abstraction hierarchy, represented as a lattice. It might be worth noting that the elements of the domain include not just words corresponding to noun phrases, but also verbs and adjectives. With reference to the Conceptual Dependency theory (see Chapter 13), the domain contains PPs, ACTs, PAs and AAs. On the other side of the bipartite graph are nodes representing relations between elements of the domain. These nodes are drawn as ovals. These relations are themselves ordered into an abstraction hierarchy. While the concepts can stand by themselves, the relation nodes need the concept nodes that they relate to exist in a knowledge base. The edges that connect relations to concepts are said to belong to the relation node and attached to the concept nodes. The knowledge base is a set of CGs describing situations. The simplest facts can be concepts that assert the existence of elements of a class. Others can describe, like conceptualizations in the CD theory, relations between things, attributes and events. The CGs have a convenient symbolic notation that could be used in computer programs. We represen