sentence (a period) has been reached when the test from the CND node value is not a terminal (POP) value or(2) if a word in the input sentence fails to satisfy any of the available arc tests from some node in the network. The number of sentences accepted by an RTN can be extended if backtracking is permitted when a failure occurs. This requires that states having alternative transitions be remembered until the parse progresses past possible failure points. hi this w, if a failure occurs at some point, the interpreter can backtrack and try alternative paths. The disadvantage with this approach is that parts of a sentence may be parsed more than one time resulting in excessive computations. Augmented Transition Networks The networks considered so far are not very useful for language understanding. They have only been capable of accepting or rejecting a sentence based on the grammar and syntax of the sentence. To be more useful, an interpreter must be able to build structures which will ultimately be used to create the required knowledge entities for an Al system. Furthermore, the resulting data structures should contain a 250 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 more information than just the syntactic information dictated by the grammar alone. Semantic information should also be included. For example, a number of sentence features can also be established, and recorded, such as the subject NP, the object NP, the subject-verb number agreement, the mood (declarative o interrogative), tense, and so on. This means that additional tests must be performed to determine the possible semantics a Sentence may have. Without these additional tests, much ambiguity will still be present and incorrect or meaningless sentences accepted. We can achieve the additional capabilities required by augmenting an RIN with the ability to perform additional tests and store immediate results as a sentence is being parsed. When an 'RTN is given these additional features, it is called an augmented