to be true without justification. The other syllogisms, though valid as wv 2d to require a derivation. In fact Aristotle took only Barbara and Celarent as given, and proved all tt wicz, 1951). ne sense, the two rules Barbara and Celarent, and the conversion rules, are complete in Aristotel rs can be considered as derived rules of inference. They are not strictly required, but they make th DT ea ee en ee eee ee eee LEASE CEES PEIOATTO Pe SME ETERS EEECATTY VME ME MEMES ) the skeptics who refused to accept any claim of knowledge. One of the more famous ones, Samja hether there was afterlife, said do not say there is an afterlife and do not say there is no , 2000). in India goes back to the art of debating. The six well known schools of philosophy are: Samkhy 00 Bc), Mimamsa (Jaimini around 300 Bc), Nydya (Aksapada Gautama, 2"4century Bc), Yoga ( 2nd century Bc or later), Vaisesika (Kanada, 6'" century Bc), and Vedanta (also called uttara Mima danta means the end of all knowledge, were composed starting the 9" century Bc in the Upani to Veda Vyasa, also the author of the Indian epic, Mahabharata). Of these the Nyaya-Vaisesika is d with reasoning. The Nyayasdtra by Gautama (or Gotama) written in second century Bc was conce ledge of sixteen categories (Sinha and Vidyabhusana, 1930)"5: eans of valid knowledge (pramana), jects of valid knowledge (prameya), yubt (samshaya), Irpose (prayojana), ample (drstanta), inclusion (siddhanta), e constituents of a syllogism (avayava), gumentation (tarka), certainment (nirnaya), abate (vada), sputations (jalpa), structive criticism (vitanda), llacy (hetvabhasa), sibble (chala), futations ( ati), and oints of the opponent's defeat (nigrahasthana). ie four possible sources of knowledge perception (pratyaksha), inference (anumana), col a), and verbal testimony (shabda, which could be of God from the vedas, or of a trustworthy hum: inference is concerned with logical necessity. s reflected in the form of the argument now known as the five 