y important task. In their courtyard are three tal! posts. On these posts is a set of sixty-four disks, each with a hole in the center and each of a different radius. When the monastery was established, all of the disks were on one of the posts, each disk resting on the one just larger than it. The monks task is to move all of the disks to one of the other pegs. Only one disk may be moved at a time, and all the other disks must be on one of the pegs. [In addition, at no time during the process may a disk be placed on top of a smaller disk. The third peg can, of course, be used as a temporary resting place for the disks. What is the quickest way for the monks to accomplish their mission? Even the best solution to this problem will take the monks a very long time. This is fortunate, since legend has it that the world will end when they have finished. The Monkey and Bananas Problem A hungry monkey finds himself in a room in which a bunch of bananas is hanging from the ceiling. The monkey, unfortunately, cannot reach the bananas, However, in the room there are also a chair and a stick. The ceiling is just the right height so that a monkey standing on a chair could knock the bananas down with the stick. The monkey knows how to move around, carry other things around, reach for the bananas, and wave a stick in the air. What is the best sequence of actions for the monkey to take to acquire lunch? 48 Artificial Intelligence e R RAS REO AERP ERMC RCS SEND DONALD CROSS +MORE +GERALD +ROADS MONEY ROBERT DANGER Fig. 2.20 Some Cryptarithmetic Problems Cryptarithmetic Consider an arithmetic problem represented in letters, as shown iff the examples in Fig. 2.20. Assign a decimal digit to each of the letters in such a way that the answer to the problem is correct. If the same letter occurs more than once, it must be assigned the same digit each time. No two different letters may be assigned the same digit. People s strategies for solving cryptarithmetic problems have been, studied i