but if we were D E F |S exploring this tree to six ply, then we would have (3) (5) (-5) eliminated not a single node but an entire tree three ply deep. To see how the two thresholds, alpha and beta, can both be used, consider the example shown in Fig. 12.5 In searching this tree, the entire subtree headed by B is searched, and we discover that at A we can expect a score of at least 3. When this alpha value is passed down to F, it will enable us to skip the exploration of L. Let s see why. After K is examined, we see that ] is guaranteed a maximum score of 0, which means that F is Fig. 12.4 An Alpha Cutoff Maximizing ply Minimizing ply (4) Maximizing ply Minimizing ply [t L (0) (7) Fig. 12.5 Alpha and Beta Cutoffs 3In this figure, we return to the use of a single STATIC function from the point of view of the maximizing player. 238 Artificial Intelligence (ee ARIE guaranteed a minimum of 0. But this is less than alpha s value of 3, so no more branches of I need be considered. The maximizing player already knows not to choose to move to C and then to I since, if that move is made, the resulting score will be no better than 0 and a score of 3 can be achieved by moving to B instead. Now let s see how the value of beta can be used. After cutting off further exploration of I, J is examined, yielding a value of 5, which is assigned as the value of F (since it is the maximum of 5 and 0). This value becomes the value of beta at node C. It indicates that C is guaranteed to get a5 or Jess. Now we must expand G. First M is examined and it has a value of 7, which is passed back to G as its tentative value. But now 7 is compared to beta (5). It is greater, and the player whose turn it is at node C is trying to minimize. So this player will not choose G, which would lead to a score of at least 7, since there is an alternative move to F, which will lead to a score of 5. Thus it is not necessary to explore any of the other branches of G. From this example, we see that at maximizing l