the plan, Ois the set of ordering relations of the form (A; A)), Lis the set of causal links of the form (Aj, P, Aj), Bis the set of binding constraints of the form (?X ?Y), (?X ?Y), or (?X Dy) where Dy is a subset of the domain of ?X. The initial node in plan space search is defined by the partial plan, Tp ( 4o- 4.0 . Ao 4W) - (3. 3) The search space is the implicit directed graph whose vertices are partial plans and whose edges correspond to refinement operations. Each refinement operator transforms a partial plan N into a successor partial plan N by augmenting one of the sets. The different refinement operations are, adding an action or partially instantiated operator to A, adding an ordering constraint to O, adding a causal link to L, or adding a binding constraint to B. The choice in the refinement process is itself driven by the need to remove flaws from a partial plan. As described above, flaws can be of two types; open subgoals or threats. We look at ways to remove each of them. An open goal refers to a precondition P of some action Ap in the plan that is not causally linked to another action. A causal link for P can be found in two ways. 1. If an existing action A, produces P and it is consistent to add (A, Ap) then one can establish a causal link (Ag, P, Ap) to the partial plan. 2. If no such existing action can be found then one has to insert a new action Anew to the partial plan, add the corresponding causal link (Anew, P, Ap), and add the ordering link (A, Ap) to the partial plan. An action Athreat that can possibly disrupt an existing causal link (A, P, Aj) is a threat to the link. Disruption will occur if all three of the following happen: 1. Athreat has an effect sQ such the P can be unified? with Q. 2. It is possible for Athreat to happen after Ay. 3. It is possible for Athreat to happen before A;. If all the three happen then we say that the threat has materialized. To eliminate the threat, one needs to ensure that at least one of the three conditi