 CBR system (see (Watson, 1997; 2002) for case studies). The problem with experience based systems is that they apply only to those problems for which knowledge has been gleaned from experience. For diagnosis of devices, that means that only those devices for which such experience has accrued can be diagnosed. A new device may have to wait till expert human users have provided the solutions. In that sense, experience based diagnosis is device specific. Model based diagnosis adopts a more fundamental approach. The basic idea is that if one can predict the (expected) behaviour of a system with a model, and if the observed behaviour is different from the expected one, then one knows that there is a fault. Further, if the predicted behaviour in the model is derived from the known behaviour of the components and the known structure of the device then the discrepancy between expected and observed behaviours can be used to drive reasoning algorithms to determine which components are faulty. This approach to diagnosis is also known as Consistency Based Diagnosis (Reiter, 1987). Since model based diagnosis works with an explicit declarative model of the system, we also say that it relies on deep knowledge. Such a model could be constructed during the design phase of the device. Then the behaviour of each component can be stored in a component library, and structure of the device would define the expected behaviour. The diagnosis algorithms themselves can be developed in a device independent fashion. This is in line with the general approach of knowledge based systems in which the knowledge itself exists in a declarative form, and can possibly be used in different tasks. The diagnosis algorithms are themselves domain independent. The following figure, adapted from (Struss and Price, 2004), depicts how a device specific diagnosis system could be constructed using the three knowledge sources library of component behaviours, the structure information from CAD, and the general di