lways decide whether the needle is in
thehaystack. Formanyknowledge bases, however, thehaystack ofconsequences isinfinite,
and completeness becomes an important issue.5 Fortunately, there are complete inference
procedures forlogicsthataresufficiently expressivetohandle manyknowledgebases.
We have described a reasoning process whose conclusions are guaranteed to be true
in any world in which the premises are true; in particular, if KB is true in the real world,
thenanysentence derived from KB byasoundinference procedure isalsotrueinthereal
world. So,whileaninferenceprocessoperateson syntax internal physicalconfigurations
such as bits in registers or patterns of electrical blips in brains the process corresponds
3 Theagentcancalculatetheprobabilitythatthereisapitin 2,2 ;Chapter13showshow.
4 Model checking works if the space of models isfinite forexample, inwumpus worlds of fixedsize. For
arithmetic,ontheotherhand,thespaceofmodelsisinfinite: evenifwerestrictourselvestotheintegers,there
areinfinitelymanypairsofvaluesforxandyinthesentencex y 4.
5 Comparewiththecaseofinfinitesearchspacesin Chapter3,wheredepth-firstsearchisnotcomplete.
Section7.4. Propositional Logic: AVery Simple Logic 243
Sentences Sentence
Entails
Follows
Semantics Semantics
Representation
World
Aspects of the Aspect of the
real world real world
Figure7.6 Sentencesarephysicalconfigurationsoftheagent,andreasoningisaprocess
of constructing new physical configurations from old ones. Logical reasoning should en-
surethatthenewconfigurationsrepresentaspectsoftheworldthatactuallyfollowfromthe
aspectsthattheoldconfigurationsrepresent.
to the real-world relationship whereby some aspect of the real world is the case6 by virtue
of other aspects of the real world being the case. This correspondence between world and
representation isillustrated in Figure7.6.
The final issue to consider is grounding the connection between logical reasoning
GROUNDING
processes andthe real environment inwhich theagent exists. Inparti