ng from exactly one of the diseases in the frame of discernment. From a detective s point of view, there is only one culprit, and she is present in the set. We illustrate the theory with the following (fictitious) story: In a certain country, the government had decided that cartoons lampooning persons in authority are not to be allowed. Yet in a certain college one day, a cartoon was found on the notice board. The cartoon made fun at the slow pace at which a senior teacher was grading examination papers. The senior teacher found it quite funny and laughed it off, explaining that the grading had to be done thoroughly. But some of the class teachers would have none of it. They assumed it must be one of the four friends in the art class, Aditi, Amala, Kopal, and Urvi, stated here in alphabetic order and not based on the class teachers degree of suspicion, and started the investigation. M (we will not name the teachers) said that she was 60 sure that it was Aditi or Urvi because they were good at drawing. K said that he was 80 sure that it was Urvi or Amala because they were known to be girls of free spirit. P said that there was a 50 chance that it was Kopal or Amala, because he had seen them laughing near the water cooler. Before we discuss the D-S theory, let us recap how the Bayesian approach would proceed. First, we would need the prior probabilities of the four students having drawn the cartoon. Then, we would need the likelihoods that if each had drawn the cartoon, they would have put it up. Then we would compute the posterior probabilities of each having drawn the cartoon, knowing that it had been put up. It is not clear how the evidence (opinion?) of the class teachers would be combined. Further there are hidden pitfalls in propagating changing posterior values that are beyond the scope of this text to explore. The interested reader is referred to (Pearl, 1988) for an indepth investigation. The D-S theory operates with the power set of the frame of discernment 