ost likely, both existential quantifiers are within the scope of the universal quantifier. But, in other readings, they are not. These include readings corresponding to, There is a major such that every student who had not declared it took an English class, and There is an English class such that every student who had not declared some major took it. In order to generate these meanings compositionally from the parse, it is necessary to produce a separate parse for each scope assignment. But there is no syntactic reason to do that, and it requires substantial additional effort. An alternative is to generate a single parse and then to use a noncompositional algorithm to generate as many alternative scopes as desired. As a second example, consider the sentence, John only eats meat on Friday and Mary does too. The syntactic analysis of this sentence must include the verb phrase constituent, only eats meat on Friday, since that is the constituent that is picked up by the elliptical expression does too. But the meaning of the first clause has a structure more like only(meat, {x | John eats x on Friday }) which can be read as, Meat is the only thing that John eats on Friday. 312 Artificial Intelligence Extended Reasoning with a Knowledge Base A significant amount of world knowledge may be necessary in order to do semantic interpretation (and thus, sometimes, to get the correct syntactic parse). Sometimes the knowledge is needed to enable the system to choose among competing interpretations. Consider, for example, the sentences 1. John made a huge wedding cake with chocolate icing. 2. John made a huge wedding cake with Bill s mixer. 3. John made a huge wedding cake with a giant tower covered with roses. 4. John made a cherry pie with a giant tower covered with roses. Let us concentrate on the problem of deciding to which constituent the prepositional phrase should be attached and of assigning a meaning to the preposition with. We have two main choices: either the phrase att