ral Problem
Solver (Newell and Simon, 1961), a state-space search system that used means ends anal-
ysis. Bylander (1992) shows simple STRIPS planning to be PSPACE-complete. Fikes and
Nilsson (1993) give a historical retrospective on the STRIPS project and its relationship to
morerecentplanning efforts.
The representation language used by STRIPS has been far more influential than its al-
gorithmic approach; what we call the classical language is close to what STRIPS used.
394 Chapter 10. Classical Planning
The Action Description Language, or ADL (Pednault, 1986), relaxed some of the STRIPS
restrictions and made it possible to encode more realistic problems. Nebel (2000) explores
schemes for compiling ADL into STRIPS. The Problem Domain Description Language, or
PDDL(Ghallabetal.,1998),wasintroducedasacomputer-parsable, standardizedsyntaxfor
representing planning problems and has been used as the standard language for the Interna-
tional Planning Competitionsince1998. Therehavebeenseveralextensions; themostrecent
version, PDDL 3.0,includes planconstraints andpreferences (Gereviniand Long,2005).
Plannersintheearly1970sgenerallyconsideredtotallyorderedactionsequences. Prob-
lemdecompositionwasachievedbycomputingasubplanforeachsubgoalandthenstringing
the subplans together in some order. This approach, called linear planning by Sacerdoti
LINEARPLANNING
(1975), was soon discovered to be incomplete. It cannot solve some very simple problems,
suchasthe Sussmananomaly(see Exercise10.7), found by Allen Brownduring experimen-
tation withthe HACKER system (Sussman, 1975). Acomplete plannermustallowfor inter-
leavingofactionsfromdifferentsubplanswithinasinglesequence. Thenotionofserializable
INTERLEAVING
subgoals (Korf, 1987) corresponds exactly to the set of problems for which noninterleaved
planners arecomplete.
One solution to the interleaving problem was goal-regression planning, a technique in
which steps in a totally ordered plan are reordered so as to avoid conflict betwee