tChat category. The problem is that in the process of minimizing the set Isolated (so that both Aditi and Shubhagata do not fall in the set), the proverbial baby has been thrown out with the bath water and the legitimate set of DoNotChat people have been ignored. There has been no convincing solution to this problem. One suggestion has been that some categories be kept fixed in size. In this example, we could say that the set of people in the category DoNotChat is immutable. This would of course mean that the smallest set of solated people must contain the people in the DoNotChat set. However, once we admit that there are some people in the set lsolated we are back to square one and we cannot convincingly answer yes to the Chat(aditi, shubhagata) query. This is because we do not know that one (or both) of them does not belong to the category IDoNotChat. And we have bound ourselves to not minimize this set. This problem becomes more acute if we admit in our database the fact 3 x(IDoNotChat(x)) saying that this category is not empty. We can only conclude that they do chat, but only if they do not belong to this (immutable) set of DoNotChat people. Circumscription puts the task of default reasoning in a logical reasoning mould. Once the predicates to be circumscribed are identified, and the minimal extensions chosen, the rest is reasoning in first order logic. In the next section, we look at an approach which is known with the title of logic, but in fact is less logical in nature. 17.1.3 Default Logic The closed world assumption adds the negation of all ground atomic formulas that are not entailed by the knowledge base. The idea in Default Logic is to extend the knowledge base with an appropriate set of (positive) ground atomic sentences (Reiter, 1980). The formulas that can be added are determined by default rules. The set of default rules Dp together with the first order theory F form a default theory F. p that augments the first order theory F. The default rules, as