hercommitmentthatplacesitbeforeorafter otheractions. Iftherewerea
variableintheactionschemathatcouldbeleftunbound, wewoulddoso.
In the 1980s and 90s, partial-order planning was seen as the best way to handle plan-
ning problems with independent subproblems after all, it was the only approach that ex-
plicitlyrepresentsindependent branchesofaplan. Ontheotherhand,ithasthedisadvantage
of not having an explicit representation of states in the state-transition model. That makes
somecomputationscumbersome. By2000,forward-search plannershaddevelopedexcellent
heuristics thatallowedthemtoefficientlydiscovertheindependent subproblems thatpartial-
order planning was designed for. As a result, partial-order planners are not competitive on
fullyautomated classical planning problems.
However, partial-order planning remains an important part of the field. Forsome spe-
cifictasks,suchasoperationsscheduling, partial-orderplanningwithdomainspecificheuris-
tics is the technology of choice. Many of these systems use libraries of high-level plans, as
describedin Section11.2. Partial-orderplanningisalsooftenusedindomainswhereitisim-
portantforhumanstounderstand theplans. Operationalplansforspacecraftand Marsrovers
aregeneratedbypartial-orderplannersandarethencheckedbyhumanoperatorsbeforebeing
uploaded tothevehicles forexecution. Theplan refinement approach makesiteasierforthe
humanstounderstandwhattheplanningalgorithmsaredoingandverifythattheyarecorrect.
392 Chapter 10. Classical Planning
10.5 ANALYSIS OF PLANNING APPROACHES
Planning combines the two major areas of AI we have covered so far: search and logic. A
planner can beseen either asaprogram that searches forasolution oras onethat (construc-
tively) proves the existence ofa solution. Thecross-fertilization of ideas from the twoareas
has led both to improvements in performance amounting to several orders of magnitude in
the last decade and toan increased use of planners in industrial applications. Unfortunately,
we do not yet have a