stacles. No planning was involved in generating the potential field
shown in the figure. Because of this, potential fields are well suited to real-time control.
Figure 25.23(a) shows a trajectory of a robot that performs hill climbing in the potential
field. In many applications, the potential field can be calculated efficiently for any given
configuration. Moreover, optimizing the potential amounts to calculating the gradient of the
potential for the present robot configuration. These calculations can be extremely efficient,
especially when compared to path-planning algorithms, all of which are exponential in the
dimensionality oftheconfiguration space(the DO Fs)intheworstcase.
The fact that the potential field approach manages to find a path to the goal in such
an efficient manner, even over long distances in configuration space, raises the question as
to whether there is a need for planning in robotics at all. Are potential field techniques
sufficient, or were we just lucky in our example? The answer is that we were indeed lucky.
Potentialfieldshavemanylocalminimathatcantraptherobot. In Figure25.23(b),therobot
approaches theobstacle bysimplyrotating itsshoulderjoint, untilitgetsstuckonthewrong
side of the obstacle. The potential field is not rich enough to make the robot bend its elbow
sothatthearmfitsundertheobstacle. Inotherwords,potentialfieldcontrolisgreatforlocal
robotmotionbutsometimeswestillneedglobalplanning. Anotherimportantdrawbackwith
potentialfieldsisthattheforcestheygeneratedependonlyontheobstacleandrobotpositions,
notontherobot svelocity. Thus,potentialfieldcontrolisreallyakinematicmethodandmay
failiftherobotismovingquickly.
Section25.6. Moving 1001
retract, lift higher
yes
move
forward no
S 3 stuck? S 4
lift up set down
push backward
S S
2 1
(a) (b)
Figure 25.24 (a) Genghis, a hexapod robot. (b) An augmented finite state machine
(AFSM) for the control of a single leg. Notice that this AFSM reacts to sensor feedback:
ifalegisstuckduringtheforwardswi