s subfield of linguistics is called stylometry; its
STYLOMETRY
successesincludetheidentificationoftheauthorofthedisputed Federalist Papers(Mosteller
and Wallace, 1964) and some disputed works of Shakespeare (Hope, 1994). Khmelev and
Tweedie(2001) producegoodresultswithasimpleletterbigrammodel.
22.4 Thisexerciseconcernstheclassificationofspamemail. Createacorpusofspamemail
andoneofnon-spammail. Examineeachcorpusanddecidewhatfeaturesappeartobeuseful
for classification: unigram words? bigrams? message length, sender, time of arrival? Then
trainaclassificationalgorithm(decisiontree,naive Bayes,SVM,logisticregression, orsome
otheralgorithmofyourchoosing)onatrainingsetandreportitsaccuracyonatestset.
22.5 Create a test set of ten queries, and pose them to three major Web search engines.
Evaluate each one for precision at 1, 3, and 10 documents. Can you explain the differences
betweenengines?
22.6 Trytoascertain whichofthesearchenginesfromthepreviousexerciseareusingcase
folding, stemming,synonyms, andspelling correction.
22.7 Write aregular expression orashort program to extract company names. Testit on a
corpusofbusiness newsarticles. Reportyourrecallandprecision.
22.8 Consider the problem of trying to evaluate the quality of an IR system that returns a
ranked list of answers (like most Web search engines). The appropriate measure of quality
depends on the presumed model of what the searcher is trying to achieve, and whatstrategy
sheemploys. Foreachofthefollowingmodels,propose acorresponding numericmeasure.
a. Thesearcherwilllookatthefirsttwentyanswersreturned, withtheobjectiveofgetting
asmuchrelevantinformation aspossible.
b. Thesearcherneedsonlyonerelevantdocument,andwillgodownthelistuntilshefinds
thefirstone.
c. Thesearcherhasafairlynarrowqueryandisabletoexamine alltheanswersretrieved.
She wants to be sure that she has seen everything in the document collection that is
Exercises 887
relevant to her query. (E.g., a lawyer wants to be sure that she has found all relevant
