nd and loss of resources. Of course, the set must be unsatisfiable otherwise a proof is impossible. A minimally unsatisfiable set is ideal in the sense that all clauses are essential and no others are needed. Thus, if we wish to prove B, we would like to do so with a set of clauses S = (A', A,,.....Ak} which become minimally unsatistiable with the addition of B. Choosing the order in which clauses are resolved is known as a search strategy. While there are many such strategies now available, we define only one of the more important ones, the set-of-support strategy. This strategy separates a set which is unsatisfiable into subsets, one of which is satisfiable. Set-of-support strategy. Let S be an unsatisfiable set of clauses and T be a subset of S. Then T is a set-of-support for S if S - T is satisfiable. A set-ofsupport resolution is a resolution of two clauses not both from S - T. This essentially means that given an unsatisfiable set (A1,..., A}, resolution should not be rformed directly among the A as noted above. Example of Resolution The example we present here is one to which all Al students should be exposed at some point in their studies. It is the famous "monkey and bananas problem," another one of those complex real life problems solvable with Al techniques. We envision a room containing a monkey, a chair, and some bananas that have been hung from the center of the ceiling, out of reach from the monkey. If the iflonkey is clever enough, he can reach the bananas by placing the chair directly below them and climbing on top of the chair. The problem is to use FOPL to represent this monkey-banana world and, using resolution, prove the monkey can reach the bananas. In creating a knowledge base, it is essential first to identify all relevant objects which will play some role in the anticipated inferences. Where possible, irrelevant objects should be omitted, but never at the risk of incompleteness. For example, in the current problem, the monkey, bananas, and c