ic sense that Asimov said should be hardwired into the brains of robots. A zeroeth law was subsequently added: A robot may not injure humanity, or, by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm. But by then, Charles Babbage (1791-1871) had arrived. The son of a wealthy banker, he was exposed to several exhibitions of machinery, and it was his desire to build the ultimate calculating machine. In one such exhibition in Hanover, the young Babbage was much impressed by a man who called himself Merlin, in whose workshop he saw fascinating uncovered female figures in silver, one of which would walk about, use an eyeglass occasionally, and bow frequently , and the other, Babbage wrote, was a dancer, full of imagination and irresistible. In 1822, he constructed his smaller machine the Difference Engine. His larger project, the Analytic Engine, however never found the funding it deserved. A description of the design can be found in (Menabrea, 1842). The distinctive feature of the Analytic Engine was that it introduced the stored-program concept, for which we acknowledge Charles Babbage as the father of computing. The first realization in physical form of a storedprogram computer was in fact the EDSAC built in Cambridge a century later. The sketch by Menabrea was translated by Lady Ada Augusta (1815-1852), Countess of Lovelace, daughter of Lord Byron, who worked closely with Babbage and is often referred to as the first programmer. The programming language Ada has been named after her. She has famously said that The Analytical Engine has no pretensions whatever to originate anything. It can do whatever we know how to order it to perform. She did recognize the possibility of representing other kinds of things in the calculating machine , including letters of the alphabet, notes in music or even pieces on a chessboard. 1.2.1 Mind and Body The notion of the mind came into our thoughts much later than minds came into existence. Almost all life forms sense the world, and most have e