g(John)
Greedy(John)
seems completely obvious to a human being. We now show how to make it completely
obvioustoacomputer.
9.2.1 A first-order inference rule
Theinferencethat Johnisevil thatis,that x John solvesthequery Evil(x) workslike
this: to use the rule that greedy kings are evil, find some x such that x is a king and x is
greedy, and then infer that this x is evil. More generally, if there is some substitution that
makes each of the conjuncts of the premise of the implication identical to sentences already
intheknowledgebase,thenwecanasserttheconclusion oftheimplication, afterapplying .
Inthiscase,thesubstitution x John achievesthataim.
We can actually make the inference step do even more work. Suppose that instead of
knowing Greedy(John),weknowthateveryoneisgreedy: y Greedy(y). (9.2)
Then we would still like to be able to conclude that Evil(John), because we know that
John is a king (given) and John is greedy (because everyone is greedy). What we need for
this to work is to find a substitution both for the variables in the implication sentence and
for the variables in the sentences that are in the knowledge base. In this case, applying the
substitution x John,y John totheimplicationpremises King(x)and Greedy(x)andthe
knowledge-base sentences King(John) and Greedy(y) will make them identical. Thus, we
caninfertheconclusion oftheimplication.
This inference process can be captured as a single inference rule that we call Gener-
GENERALIZED alized Modus Ponens:2 For atomic sentences p , p (cid:2) , and q, where there is a substitution MODUSPONENS i i
326 Chapter 9. Inference in First-Order Logic
(cid:2)
suchthat SUBST( ,p
i
) SUBST( ,p
i
),foralli,
p (cid:2) , p (cid:2) , ..., p (cid:2) , (p p ... p q)
1 2 n 1 2 n
.
SUBST( ,q)
(cid:2)
Therearen 1premisestothisrule: thenatomicsentencesp andtheoneimplication. The
i
conclusion istheresultofapplying thesubstitution totheconsequent q. Forourexample:
(cid:2)
p is King(John) p is King(x)
1 1
(cid:2)
p is Greedy(y) p is G