n, a few caveats are in order. Even the techniques we have exploited in this program are not adequate for complete English question answering. The most important thing that is missing from this program is a general reasoning (inference) mechanism to be used when the requested answer is not contained explicitly even in Integrated Text, but that answer does follow logically from the knowledge that is there. For example, given the text Saturday morning Mary went shopping. Her brother tried to call her then, but he couldn t get hold of her. it should be possible to answer the question 18 Artificial Intelligence ALANIS NASR EE TY MELE I LNT Why couldn t Mary s brother reach her? with the reply Because she wasn t home. But to do so requires knowing that one cannot be at two places at once and then using that fact to conclude that Mary could not have been home because she was shopping instead. Thus, although we avoided the inference problem temporarily by building Integrated Text, which had some obvious inferences built into it, we cannot avoid it forever. It is simply not practical to anticipate all legitimate inferences. In later chapters, we look at ways of providing a general inference mechanism that could be used to support a program such as the last one in this series. This limitation does not contradict the main point of this example though. In fact, it is additional evidence for that point, namely, an effective question-answering procedure must be one based soundly on knowledge and the computational use of that knowledge. The purpose of AI techniques is to support this effective use of knowledge. With the advent of the Internet and the vast amount of knowledge in the ever increasing websites and associated pages, came the Web based Question Answering Systems. Try for instance the START natural language question answering system (http://start.csail.mit.edu/). You will find that both the questions ~ What is the capital of India? and Is Delhi the capital of India? yie