nose': resource identification and evalua'tion (geological, forestry, hydrological, crop disease): and detection of explosive and hostile threats (submarine, aircraft, missilei to name a few. Object classification is closely related to recognition. The ability to classify or group objects according to come commonly shared features is a form of class recognition Classification is essential for decision making. learnin g, and many other cognitive acts. Like recognition, classification depends on the ability to discover common patterns among objects. This ability, in turn, must he acquired through some learning process. Prominent feature patterns which cht'acterize classes of objects must be discovered, generalized, and stored for subsequent recall and compari son We do not know exactly how humans learn to identify or classify objects. however, it appears the following processes take place: New objects are introduced to a human through activation of sensor stiiiiuti The sensors. depending on their physical properties, are sensitive in varying degrees to certain attributes which serve to characterize the objects, and the sensor output tends to he proportional to the more prominent attributes Having perceived a new object, a cognitive model is lormed from the stimuli patterns and stored in memory. Recurrent experiences in perceiving the same or similar objects strengthen and refine the similarity Sec. 13.2 The Recognition and Classification Process 273 patterns. Repeated perception results in the formation of generalized or archetype models of object classes which become useful in matching, and hence recognition, of similar objects. 13.2 THE RECOGNITION AND CLASSIFICATION PROCESS In artificial or mechanical recognition, essentially the same steps as noted above must be performed. These steps are illustrated in Figure 13.1 and summarized helov: Step 1. Stimuli produced by objects are perceived by sensory devices. The more prominent attributes (such as size, shape, color, 