 the robot s workspace. Ourexample in Figure 25.14(a) shows several
suchobstacles, including afree-hanging obstacle thatprotrudes intothecenteroftherobot s
workspace. In workspace, such obstacles take on simple geometric forms especially in
most robotics textbooks, which tend to focus on polygonal obstacles. But how do they look
inconfiguration space?
Figure25.14(b)showstheconfigurationspaceforourexamplerobot,underthespecific
obstacleconfigurationshownin Figure25.14(a). Theconfigurationspacecanbedecomposed
into twosubspaces: thespace ofallconfigurations that arobot mayattain, commonly called
free space, and the space of unattainable configurations, called occupied space. The white
FREESPACE
area in Figure 25.14(b) corresponds to the free space. All other regions correspond to occu-
OCCUPIEDSPACE
Section25.4. Planningto Move 989
piedspace. Thedifferent shadings oftheoccupied spacecorresponds tothedifferent objects
in the robot s workspace; the black region surrounding the entire free space corresponds to
configurations inwhich the robot collides with itself. Itis easy tosee that extreme values of
the shoulder or elbow angles cause such a violation. The two oval-shaped regions on both
sidesoftherobotcorrespondtothetableonwhichtherobotismounted. Thethirdovalregion
corresponds tothe leftwall. Finally, themostinteresting object inconfiguration space isthe
verticalobstaclethathangsfromtheceilingandimpedestherobot smotions. Thisobjecthas
afunnyshapeinconfiguration space: itishighlynonlinearandatplacesevenconcave. With
a little bit of imagination the reader will recognize the shape of the gripper at the upper left
end. We encourage the reader to pause for a moment and study this diagram. The shape of
thisobstacle isnot atallobvious! Thedotinside Figure25.14(b) markstheconfiguration of
the robot, as shown in Figure 25.14(a). Figure 25.15 depicts three additional configurations,
both in workspace and in configuration space. In configuration conf-1, the gripper encloses
thever