ed to do at least some parts of semantic interpretation. These arguments involve the need for large constituents to serve as the basis of those semantic actions, such as the ones we discussed in Section 15.3.4, that are hard to define conspletely compositionally. There is no magic solution to this problem. Most systems use one of these two extremes or a heuristically driven compromise position. 15.4 DISCOURSE AND PRAGMATIC PROCESSING To understand even a single sentence, it is necessary to consider the discourse and pragmatic context in which the sentence was uttered (as we saw in Section 15.1.1). These issues become even more important when we want to understand texts and dialogues, so in this section we broaden our concern to these larger linguistic units. There are a number of important relationships that may hold between phrases and parts of their discourse contexts, including: Identical entities. Consider the text Bill had a red balloon. John wanted it. 314 Artificial Intelligence AA SERN EELS TENE TE TERI NI The word it should be identified as referring to the red balloon. References such as this are called dnaphoric references or anaphora. Parts of entities. Consider the text Sue opened the book she just bought. The title page was torn. The phrase the title page should be recognized as being part of the book that was just bought. Parts of actions. Consider the text John went on a business trip to New York. He left on an early morning flight. Taking a flight should be recognized as part of going on a trip. Entities involved in actions. Consider the text ~ My house was broken into last week. ~ They took the TV and the stereo. The pronoun they should be recognized as referring to the burglars who broke into the house. Elements of sets. Consider the text ~ The decals we have in stock are stars, the moon, item and a flag. IH take two moons. The inoons in the second sentence should be understood to be some of the moons mentioned in the first sentence. Notice that t