sts such as What is the average concentration of aluminum in high-alkali r N:ks? What is the average of the basalt? In which samples has apatite been identified? LUNAR has three main components: I. A general purpose grammar and an ATN parser capable of handling a large subset of English. This component produces a syntactic parse tree of the input sentence. 2. A rule-driven semantic interpreter which transf'orrns the syntactic representation into a logical form suitable for querying the da,.i base. The rules have the general form of pattern - action as described in Section 12.5. The rules produce disposable programs to cary out different tasks such as answering a query. 3. A data base retrieval and inference component which is used to determine answers to queries and to make changes to the data base The system has a dictionary of some 3500 words, an English grammar and two data bases. One data base contains a table of chemical analyses of about 13.000 entries, and the other contains 10,000 indexed document topics. LUNAR uses a meaning representation language which is an extended form of FOPL. The language uses (1) designators which name objects or classes of objects like nouns, variables, and classes with range quantifiers, (2) propositions that can be true or false, that are connected with logical operators and, or, riot, and quantification identifiers. Sec. 12.7 Natural Language Systems 265 and (3) commands which carry out specific actions (like TEST which tests the truth value of propositions against given arguments (TEST (CONTAIN sarnple24 silicon). Although never fully implemented, the LUNAR project was considered an operational success since it related to a real world problem in need of a solution. It failed to parse or find the correct semantic interpretation on only about 10% of the questions presented to it. The LIFER System LIFER (Language Interface Facility with Ellipsis and Recursion) was described briefly in Section 12.2 under semantic grammars. It was d