list as its argument. Write a lambda function which mapcaz uses to find the square of the integers in the list. For example, (sum-squares (2 3 1 4)) should return 30. 3.16 Write a PROLOG program that answers questions about family members and relationships. Include predicates and rules which define sister, brother, father, mother, grandchild, grandfather, and uncle. The program should be able to answer queries such as the following: 7father(X, bob). 7. grandson(X, Y). 7uncle(bill, sue). 7mother(mary, X). 3.17 Trace the search sequence PROLOG follows in satisfying the following goal: 7member(c,Ia,b.c.d J). 3.18 Write a function called match that takes two arguments, a pattern and a clause. if the first argument, the pattern, is a variable identified by a question mark followed by a lowercase letter (like ?x or ?y), the function should return a list giving the variable and the corresponding clause, since a variable matches anything. If the pattern is not a variable, it should return r only if the pattern and the clause are identical. Otherwise, the function should return nil. I,' PART Knowledge Representation A Formalized Symbolic Logics Starting with this chapter, we begin a study of some basic tools and methodologies used in Al and the design of knowledge-based systems. The first representation scheme we examine is one of the oldest and most important, First Order Predicate Logic (FOPL). It was developed by logicians as a means for formal reasoning, primarily in the areas of mathematics. Following our study of FOPL, we then investigate five additional representation methods which have become popular over the past twenty years. Such methods were developed by researchers in Al or related fields for use in representing different kinds of knowledge. After completing these chapters, we should be in a position to best choose which representation methods to use for a given application, to see how automated reasoning can be programmed, and to appreciate how the essential pa