aps. Whatisthecomplexity ofyouralgorithm?
25.7 This exercise explores the relationship between workspace and configuration space
usingtheexamplesshownin Figure25.32.
a. Consider the robot configurations shown in Figure 25.32(a) through (c), ignoring the
obstacleshownineachofthediagrams. Drawthecorresponding armconfigurations in
configurationspace. (Hint: Eacharmconfigurationmapstoasinglepointinconfigura-
tionspace,asillustrated in Figure25.14(b).)
b. Draw the configuration space for each of the workspace diagrams in Figure 25.32(a) (c). (Hint: The configuration spaces share with the one shown in Figure 25.32(a) the
regionthatcorrespondstoself-collision, butdifferencesarisefromthelackofenclosing
obstacles andthedifferent locations oftheobstacles intheseindividual figures.)
c. Foreachoftheblackdotsin Figure25.32(e) (f),drawthecorrespondingconfigurations
oftherobotarminworkspace. Pleaseignoretheshadedregionsinthisexercise.
d. The configuration spaces shown in Figure 25.32(e) (f) have all been generated by a
single workspace obstacle (dark shading), plus the constraints arising from the self-
collision constraint (light shading). Draw, for each diagram, the workspace obstacle
thatcorresponds tothedarklyshadedarea.
Exercises 1017
(a) (b) (c)
(d) (e) (f)
Figure25.32 Diagramsfor Exercise25.7.
e. Figure 25.32(d) illustrates that a single planar obstacle can decompose the workspace
into two disconnected regions. What is the maximum number of disconnected re-
gionsthatcanbecreatedbyinsertingaplanarobstacleinto anobstacle-free, connected
workspace, for a 2DOF robot? Give an example, and argue why no larger number of
disconnected regionscanbecreated. Howaboutanon-planar obstacle?
25.8 Consider a mobile robot moving on a horizontal surface. Suppose that the robot can
executetwokindsofmotions: Rollingforwardaspecifieddistance. Rotatinginplacethrough aspecifiedangle.
The state of such a robot can be characterized in terms of three parameters (cid:16)x,y, , the x-
coordinate and y-