for them . The , t everyone cares for someone. Assuming that the universe of discourse is people we can formalize t m Vx dy Loves(x, y) 1 Vx Vy (Loves(x, y) D CaresFor(x, y)) r Vx Jy CaresFor(x, y) we skolemize the premises we get, (Loves ?x (Sk7 ?x)) (Loves ?z ?y) D (CaresFor ?z ?y) ing the substitution ?z 2x, ?y (sk7 ?x) , we get the conclusion, (CaresFor ?x (sk7 ?x)) icompleteness of Forward Chaining of reasoning is to unravel the information that is implicit in a set of sentences. Forward chaining, 1 chaining that we will look at later, has a problem with handling disjunctive facts. This is becat g often involves reasoning by cases. that allows reasoning with disjunctive facts is the constructive dilemma that says, From (a fB)A (yD 9) and avy infer BV6 an employ the rule to solve the following problem, m: Wx (Winner(x) D PhotolnPaper(x) I: Winner(Sunil) V Winner(Anil) ir PhotolnPaper(Sunil) V PhotolnPaper(Anil) the absence of appropriate rules of inference it cannot extract some kinds of implicit information. W iples. The firstappeats in Charniak and McDermott, 1985) and the second one in (Brachman and Li rst problem says that given the facts that block A and block B are on the table, and that at least one jOal IS Inaeea true, Decause IT b Is green then A on salisties tne query. cise Db Is not green and Bb Again forward chaining is unable to handle this problem. rve that both the problems involve an existential goal. Such goals is HDG AR Som ? are quite com lifficulty however arises because of the presence of disjunctive fa ie second problem fully add fact (Green(B) V 7Green(B)). Reasoning with disjunctive facts often involves reasoning wi one develops two or more strands or chains of inferences and show that they combine to 2nt. The forward chaining procedure on the other cannot reason by cases. nciple of course one can add more rules on the lines of the constructive dilemma rule, but that ome, and too specific. For example, one could add the following rule to 