l to k. This is because one does not have to specify values for all attributes in a WME. Furthermore, the order of specifying attributes in a WME is unimportant. Specifying attributes in arbitrary order does not increase the complexity of matching process, because of the compiled network that the OPS5 system uses. The following are then valid instances of the class card-rank. Observe that white space is ignored and indentation is mainly for human consumption, and order of mentioning attributes and their values does not matter. (card-rank card 9 suit spades player north played no) (card-rank player south card a suit spades rank 1) 6.6.2 Rules We have already seen some rules defined above. In OPS5, a rule has the following structure: (gp xcleName pattern-l pettern-2 pattern-p actior-1 action-2 action-r) where each pattern is equal to or a generalization of a matching WME, optionally preceded by a negation sign . However, the first pattern cannot have the negation sign. The pattern may itself be enclosed in a pair of angle brackets, along with a name assigned to the pattern. The following patterns are discussed in the context of the two example WMEs above. (card suit spades) and (cards suit x ) Both patterns will match both WMEs. The value x in the second pattern is a variable that can match anything. However, if the variable occurs in more than one pattern within a rule then it should match the same value, (card suit spades player south north ) which will also match both WMEs. The value for attribute player south north is a disjunction. This means that the value could be either of south and north. The pattern can also be specified as a conjunction, as follows, (card player south rank n 0 5 ) This says that the value of rank of the card is called n , and that it should both be greater than 0 and smaller than 5. This will match the second WME, as will the following: (card player south rank n 1 ) (card player south rank 2) Given a pattern p and a WME w, the match between