 B, t) D (On(A, B, t-1) A ArmEmpty(t-1)'1 A Clear(A, t-1)). 4. An action implies its effects, at time t. This is expressed as a clause (a effects(a);) where effects(a) is a conjunction of the positive and negative effects of action a. For the unstack action we have, (UnSt(A, B, t) D (7On(A, B, t) A 7ArmEmpty(t) A Holding(A, t) Clear(B, t)). 5. Classical Frame axioms. If the action a does not affect a fluent f, then f remains unchanged after the action. (f.4 A a)) )f. For example ((Clear(C, t1)AUnSt(A, B, t)) 2 Clear(C, t)). An alternative formulation of the Frame axioms, known as explanatory frame axioms, has two clauses for each fluent, which say that if the fluent has changed then one of the actions that causes that change must have happened (Haas, 1987), (Schubert, 1990). Sirah via, fe del(a,) and -M, Via, fe add(a,) 6. The original formulation of SATPLAN also had clauses that said that only one action occurs at a time. For all actions a and b, the following holds, az V 7b; However, later versions did away the exclusion between actions and borrowing from Graphplan, generated encodings from the planning graph that did allow parallel actions. 10.3.2 Encoding the Planning Graph The planning graph can be expressed as a SAT problem in a straightforward fashion (Kautz et al., 1996). The fluents in the initial layer are clauses in the encoding, and the rest of the encoding process begins at the goal layer. 1. Fluents from the initial layer Po. f fge Po then fo is a clause, else 7 is a clause. 2. Fluents from the goal layer Py. We add a fluent f, for every goal proposition f, G. Observe that the goal G is usually incompletely specified. We only add the known fluents to the SAT encoding. 3. An action implies its preconditions. If an action holds (is true) at layer time t then its preconditions must hold at time (t 1)'2. This is expressed as a clause (a; D precond(a);-1) where precond(a) is the conjunction of the preconditions of action a. For example we have, (UnSt(A, B, 