vironment, focusing and projecting it onto a light sensitive surface, and converting the light into electrochemical patterns of impulses. The perception part of the process involves the transformation and comparison of the transmitted impulse patterns to other prestored patterns Sec. 14.1 Introduction 287 Illumination Retina Transparent lens Figure 14.1 The human process of visual interpretation. together with some form of inference. The basic vision process as it occurs in humans is depicted in Figure 14. 1 Light from illuminated objects is collected by the transparent lens of the eye, focused, and projected onto the retina where Some 250 million light sensitive sensors (cones and rods) are excited. When excited, the sensors send impulses through the optic nerve to the visual cortex of the occipital lobes of the brain where the images are interpreted and recognized. Computer vision systems share some similarities with human visual systems, at least as we now understand them. They also have a number of important differences. Although artificial vision systems vary widely with the specific application, we adopt a general approach here, one in which the ultimate objective is to determine a high-level description of a three-dimensional scene witha competency level comparable to that of human vision systems. Before proceeding farther we should distinguish between a scene and an image of a scene. A scene is the set of physical objects in a picture area, whereas an image is the projection of the scene onto a two-dimensional plane. With the above objectives in mind, a typical computer vision system should be able to perform the following operations: 1. Image formation, sensing, and digitization 2. Local processing and image segmentation 3., Shape formation and interpretation 4 Semantic analysis and description. - The sequence of these operations is depicted in Figure 14.2. As we proceed through the processing stages of computer vision, the reader will no doubt be impressed