 or tumour cells resulting in the release substances that stimulate other celis of the immune system. Also function as antigen presenters. by displaying antigens produced by the foreign substances on their surfaces. Neutrophils: Most common of the white blood cells with short life span (less than a day) which locate (using chemotaxis*) and react spontaneously to the presence of foreign material. They surround the foreign body, engulf it, and release other chemicals destroy it. Dead neutorphils and foreign body together form what is termed as pus. Artificial Immune Systems 495 SAUTER RIDINGS AISI 16. Pathogens: Microorganisms such as bacteria, viruses, parasites, or fungi that cause disease. 17. Peptides: Simple proteins comprising of only a few amino acids. | 18, Peristalsis: Rippling movement of muscles in the in the gastrointestinal tract that moves food and liquid. The process is characterized by alternate contraction and relaxation of the muscles that propel the contents forward. 19, Phagocytes: Large white blood cells that readily ingest microbes (phagocytosis) like bacteria, fungi etc. contributing to the defence mechanism. They migrate from the blood into infected tissues. Neutrophils!> and monocytes constitute the major lot of phagocytes. 20. Somatic hypermutation: A high frequency of controlled mutation. It occurs in the gene segments that encode the variable regions of antibodies resulting in the generation of high affinity antibodies. CHAPTER 25 PROLOG - THE NATURAL LANGUAGE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE Sophism: A Cretan saying all Cretans are lars! 25.1 INTRODUCTION Learning AI should never be a theoretical exercise. It has to be augmented by programs that actually exhibit it. Naturally one requires a programming language for this. While numerous languages (such as BASIC, C and Java) have been used to write AI code, the better known languages are PROLOG and LISP. PROLOG was first developed by Alain Colmerauer of the University of Marseilles, France in the 