edicates, such as apples are food, apples are (often) red, and so on. The predicates one has in one s vocabulary are a reflection of how one knows the world. In computer science terminology an ontology is a formal specification of concepts and the relations between them. Tom Gruber puts it succinctly: An ontology is a specification of a conceptualization (Gruber, 1993). Given a domain of objects, the basic concepts are the categories defined by unary predicates. The relations between objects are defined by the higher arity predicates, and by means of logical relationships. The first task in knowledge representation is to define these predicates. More complex conceptual structures can be defined in terms of simpler ones. The many natural languages invented by human societies are ontological in the sense that they provide labels (words) for concepts that their users are dealing with. Obviously, a language will be useful (for communication) only if it is shared. In terms of the predicates of FOL this implies that they refer to the same subsets of the domain for different people or agents. For most of us this happens naturally since we learn a language from the people around us. A human child acquires language during its increasing interaction with the world. It is helped in this process by other more knowledgeable humans using the same language itself as a medium. Thus a child may learn to point at a four legged creature and call it a doggy and at a fruit and call it an apple . But gradually, it acquires words for cows , horses , pears and guavas , and learns to distinguish them conceptually as w liza"hgaistically. It also learns qualifiers like big and small , and over a period of time acquires a larger and larger vocabulary to address. a, darger and more refined set of concepts. People learn and grow their ontologies (by this we mean concepts and relations between them). Starting with a few concepts they refine them more and more and the ontology begets finer and fin