 withlinearratherthanexponential growthincomplexity. Inthecaseof
Bayesian networks, it is reasonable to suppose that in most domains each random variable
is directly influenced by at most k others, for some constant k. If we assume n Boolean
variables for simplicity, then the amount of information needed to specify each conditional
probability table will be at most 2k numbers, and the complete network can be specified by
n2k numbers. Incontrast, thejointdistribution contains 2n numbers. Tomakethisconcrete,
suppose we have n 30 nodes, each with five parents (k 5). Then the Bayesian network
requires 960numbers,butthefulljointdistribution requiresoverabillion.
There are domains in which each variable can be influenced directly by all the others,
sothatthenetwork isfullyconnected. Thenspecifying theconditional probability tables re-
quiresthesameamountofinformationasspecifying thejointdistribution. Insomedomains,
there will be slight dependencies that should strictly be included by adding a new link. But
if these dependencies are tenuous, then it maynot be worth the additional complexity in the
network for the small gain in accuracy. For example, one might object to our burglary net-
work on the grounds that if there is an earthquake, then John and Mary would not call even
if they heard the alarm, because they assume that the earthquake is the cause. Whether to
add the link from Earthquake to John Calls and Mary Calls (and thus enlarge the tables)
depends oncomparing theimportance ofgetting moreaccurate probabilities withthecostof
specifying theextrainformation.
516 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
Mary Calls Mary Calls
John Calls John Calls
Alarm Earthquake
Burglary Burglary
Earthquake Alarm
(a) (b)
Figure 14.3 Network structure depends on order of introduction. In each network, we
haveintroducednodesintop-to-bottomorder.
Even in a locally structured domain, we will get a compact Bayesian network only if
we choose the node ordering well. What happens if we happen to