e s actions is fundamental to intelligent activity. Choosing the actions that will lead to a the desired result builds upon that. The ability itself is founded upon the ability to perceive, to build a model of the world to imagine. When shall we say we have artificial intelligence? The answer depends pretty much upon what you mean by artificial intelligence. The goal of life is to live. That sounds like a circular definition, but it sums up the basic idea. Starting with complex molecules, there is an entire chain of more and more complex entities that strives to persist. All known life forms consume energy. For animals this is in the form of food. This is often at the expense of other life forms. And thus arises the struggle for survival. Life forms have phenotypes (bodies) that have finite existence, in which they are born, they grow, reproduce, exist for a while, and die. Reproduction is accompanied by evolution and life forms improve their ability to survive, eat and procreate. In their daily existence they are able to sense the world, respond to stimuli, and act in ways beneficial for them. They often do this without what we mean by intelligence. Their behaviour is hard coded into their genes. It is the competition in the world that is selecting the good genotypes. The simplest life forms are like automatons crafted by natural selection. As we move up the complexity chain, more sophisticated behaviour is seen. In the simpler forms of life visual inputs may directly trigger a certain response. But as we move up the chain, the notion of seeing and perceiving emerges. Visual information enters through the eyes and is processed in the brain in complex ways. Creatures are able to recognize friend or foe, food or a predator, or a potential mate, and behave accordingly. As we move further up we can call creatures intelligent when they can reflect upon their world, their own existence, their goals, the situation, and what they need to do. Intelligence in Silicon? Let us