 involved in the text. It answers questions using this augmented knowledge structure. Data Structures World Model English Know Input Text A structured representation of background world knowledge. This structure contains knowledge about objects, actions and situations that are described in the input text. This structure is used to construct Integrated Text from the input text. For example, Figure 1.3 shows an example of a structure that represents the system s knowledge about shopping. This kind of stored knowledge about stereotypical events is called a script and is discussed in more detail in Section 10.2. The notation used here differs from the one normally used in the literature for the sake of simplicity. The prime notation describes an object of the same type as the unprimed symbol that may or may not refer to the identical object. In the case of our text, for example, M is a coat and M is a red coat. Branches in the figure describe alternative paths through the script. 1, C enters L 2. C begins looking around 3. C looks tr a specific M 4. C looks for any interesting M 5. C asks S for help i 7. C finds M 8. C fails to find M 9. C leaves L 10. C buys M 11. C leaves L 12. goto step 2 13.C 1 ve c 14. C takes MW Fig. 1.3. A Shopping Script Same as in Program 2. The input text in character form. What is Artificial Intelligence? 17 Integrated Text A structured representation of the knowledge contained in the input text (similar to the - structured description of Program 2) but combined now with other background, related knowledge. Input Question The input question in character fonn. Struct Question A structured representation of the question. The Algorithm Convert the Input Text into structured form using both the knowledge contained in English Know and that contained in World Model. The number of possible structures will usually be greater now than it was in Program 2 because so much more knowledge is being used. Sometimes, though, it may be possible to consider fe