other with a thicker boundary ( avinash, arnav, aarti, amrita, ashwani , science ). In the example constructed here, no shuffling of rows and columns is needed. It must be noted that all concepts need not appear as contiguous maximal rectangles at the same time, even though it is so in this example. Table 14.2 Another example context. A concept in a context is a maximal rectangle of X s that one can obtain after shuffling rows and columns. Two of the four concepts are marked. One with a thick boundary, the other with shaded squares Objects ronan 7 math english Science games music history avinash amav xX aarti x x asta ashwani I ashok The concept lattice for the above concept is given in Figure 14.35. The four concepts in the above context are, C, ( aarti , math, english, science, games, music ) Cp ( arnav, aarti , english, science ) C3 ( aarti, amrita , science, games ) C, ( avinash, arnav, aarti, amrita, ashwani , science ) Apart from this, there is the top concept containing all the students and no subject, and the bottom concept containing all the subject and no students. In the lattice concept, C, is the infimum (also called meet) of the concepts C2 and C3, while Cy is their supremum (also called join). The lattice with the succinct labelling can be used to answer some questions efficiently. An object has a property if the object label is not higher than the property label. To find all objects that have given property, one needs to start at the node labelled by the property and traverse the lattice below the property label. For example, English is liked by Arnav and Aarti. Likewise, to find all properties of a given object, one needs to traverse the lattice above the node labelled with the object. 6 ashok science avinash, ashwani games amrita math, music aar history SS o FIGURE 14.35 The concept lattice for the context given in Table 14.2. Observe that there is a property history that does not hold for any object. To find the common properties shared by two obje