asured in LIPS (Logical Inferences Per Second). forward chaining, it is not complete for general FOL. ((P(0) A Wi (P(i) D Pli 1)) D Vi(P(i) is a well known puzzle. The question assumes that the surgeon is speaking the truth. Concepts and Language Chapter 13 Tr language of FOL allows us to create a representation of the elements of a domain or universe of discourse, and the relations between them. Over this domain a set of unary predicates define categories and properties, for example Man, Mortal, Student, and Bright . The predicates define the base ontology in the philosophical sense, as a study of being or existence. In that sense a predicate defines a category for some agent that wants to reason about the domain. We are not concerned here with the fundamental questions posed by Heidegger as to what is existence? or the meaning of Being (Heidegger, 1927), but rather what Sartre calls consciousness which is in a state of cohabitation with its material body (Sartre, 1943). One could take this to be a phenomenological attitude where we are concerned with knowing about existence as intimately tied to existence itself. Willard Van Orman Quine settled the issue as far as logic and knowledge representation is concerned when he said that to be is to be the value of a quantified variable (Quine, 1990). Then if one says for example for all x... then whatever binds to x as a value exists. The notion of an apple can be defined simply as a subset of the domain that are apples, and membership to which is characterized by satisfying the predicate Apple. f Apple(element291) is true then element291 is an apple. Our interest is in representation of the domain and being able to reason about the domain. If we need to reason about apples then we would need to associate apples with other predicates, such as apples are food, apples are (often) red, and so on. The predicates one has in one s vocabulary are a reflection of how one knows the world. In computer science terminology an ontolog