e true. ompound formulas constructed by the use of logical connectives the truth values are arrived at in 1 as in propositional logic. neaning of the terms and sentences of a set of FOL sentences is given by an interpretation is a domain and is an interpretation mapping. An interpretation M D, of set of sentences or a ge L(P, F, C) is a model if all the sentences in the set are true in the interpretation. ntence of FOL may be a propositional sentence when it does not have any variable. For rates) or Loves(Romeo, Juliet). Such sentences are often known as facts. jition there may be facts that are expressed using quantifiers. For example on the domain of (nonumbers the following are always true22 3 x Even(x) x Greater Than(Successor(X), X) we can observe that each quantified sentence is a short form for a propositional sentence, whic appens to be infinitely long. The sentences are, Even(0) V Even(1) V Even(2) V... GreaterThan(Successor(0), 0) A GreaterThan(Successor(I), 1)A we can see that not only do quantifiers allow us to express things succinctly, they also allow us to t ts that would not be possible in propositional logic. The universal quantifier combines propositional connective A, and the existential quantifier using V. They also allow us to describe relations sets of propositional sentences. For example, Vv x( Meno a Odd Vx(Mani arta Iso sometimes refer to such statements as rules. and one talks of a knowledae based containing 1 F Next, Combine C begin if one were dealing with the set of natural numbers, one would have th6Fe"OWwirePifterpretation. ger(x, y): X is greater than y Jal (x,y): X is equal to y xt(X): stands for successor of x mbine(x, y): stands for x y jin: stands for 0 e other hand one could be talking about strings over a particular alphabet. Then, ger(x, y): X is longer than y Jal (x,y): x is same length as y xt(x): stands for successor of x in the lexicographic order nbine(x, y): stands for x concatenated with y jin: stands for the empty strin