s a toothache. These variables are independent, how-
ever, given thepresence ortheabsence ofacavity. Eachisdirectly caused bythecavity, but
neither has a direct effect on the other: toothache depends on the state of the nerves in the
tooth, whereas the probe s accuracy depends on the dentist s skill, to which the toothache is
irrelevant.5 Mathematically, thisproperty iswrittenas
P(toothache catch Cavity) P(toothache Cavity)P(catch Cavity). (13.17)
CONDITIONAL Thisequationexpressestheconditionalindependenceoftoothache andcatchgiven Cavity.
INDEPENDENCE
Wecanplugitinto Equation(13.16)toobtaintheprobability ofacavity:
P(Cavity toothache catch) P(toothache Cavity)P(catch Cavity)P(Cavity). (13.18)
Now the information requirements are the same as for inference, using each piece of evi-
dence separately: the prior probability P(Cavity) for the query variable and the conditional
probability ofeacheffect, givenitscause.
Thegeneraldefinitionofconditionalindependenceoftwovariables X and Y,givena
thirdvariable Z,is
P(X,Y Z) P(X Z)P(Y Z).
Inthedentistdomain,forexample,itseemsreasonabletoassertconditional independence of
thevariables Toothache and Catch,given Cavity:
P(Toothache,Catch Cavity) P(Toothache Cavity)P(Catch Cavity). (13.19)
Noticethatthisassertionissomewhatstrongerthan Equation(13.17),whichassertsindepen-
dence only for specific values of Toothache and Catch. As with absolute independence in
Equation(13.11), theequivalent forms
P(X Y,Z) P(X Z) and P(Y X,Z) P(Y Z)
can also be used (see Exercise 13.17). Section 13.4 showed that absolute independence as-
sertionsallowadecomposition ofthefulljointdistribution intomuchsmallerpieces. Itturns
out that the same is true for conditional independence assertions. For example, given the
assertion in Equation(13.19), wecanderiveadecomposition asfollows:
P(Toothache,Catch,Cavity) P(Toothache,Catch Cavity)P(Cavity) (productrule) P(Toothache Cavity)P(Catch Cavity)P(Cavity) (using13.19).
(Thereadercaneasilycheck thatthisequation doesin