al is to get from place A to place B, and there is a WALL separating the two places then: look for a DOORWAY in the WALL and go through it. To use this rule successfully, the system s matching routine must be able to identify an object as a wall. Without this, the rule can never be invoked. Then, to apply the rule, the system must be able to recognize a doorway. Before classification can be done, the classes it will use must be defined. This can be done in a variety of ways, including: e Isolate a set of features that are relevant to the task domain. Define each class by a weighted sum of values of these features. Each class is then defined by a scoring function that looks very similar to the scoring functions often used in other situations, such as game playing. Such a function has the form: Cyt + Coby + Calg +... Each rf corresponds to a value of a relevant parameter, and each c represents the weight to be attached to the corresponding #. Negative weights can be used to indicate features whose presence usually constitutes negative evidence for a given class. 356 Artificial Intelligence For example, if the task is weather prediction, the parameters can be such measurements as rainfall and location of cold fronts. Different functions can be written to combine these parameters to predict sunny, cloudy. rainy, or snowy weather. e Isolate a set of features that are relevant to the task domain. Define each class as a structure composed of those features. For example, if the task is to identify animals, the body of each type of animal can be stored as a structure, with various features representing such things as color, length of neck, and feathers. There are advantages and disadvantages to each of these general approaches. The statistical approach taken by the first scheme presented here is often more efficient than the structural approach taken by the second, But the second is more flexible and more extensible. Regardless of the way that classes are to be described, it