 (aditi, jennifer) Construct all extensions of the default theory. What conclusions about the Chat predicate can be drawn? 3. Generate all the expansions of the following knowledge base and identify the stable ones KB: Vx Vy (Friend(x,y) A - BIsolated(x) a 7 BIsolated(y) D Chat(x,y)) Friend(aditi, jennifer), Isolated (jennifer) 4. Discuss the implications of replacing the universal statement with the following one vx Vy (Friend(x,y) A BoIsolated(x) A BoIsolated(y) Chat (x,y)) in the knowledge base KBs reproduced below. Construct all stable expansions and identify the stable ones. KBS: Wx Wy (Friend(x,y) A -BIsolated(x) a -BIsolated(y) Chat (x,y)) Friend(aditi, shubhgata), Friend(aditi, jennifer), Isolated (jennifer) 5. Consider the following facts that Raymond might be working with, Vx (Lying(x) GetQuestioned(x), (-BLying(shashi) D Lying(lalit)), (-BLying(lalit) Lying(shashi)) Who do you think should get questioned ? Do you think this KB allows for the fact that both might be lying, or neither? 6. What are stable sets in the context of autoepistemic logic? How are they constructed? What are the stable sets for the following sets of sentences? (a) (-BFlat(Earth) Flat(Earth)), Hot(Sun), Round(Moon) (b) (BFlat(Earth) Flat(Earth)), Hot(Sun), Round(Moon) 7. Given the following set of statements, Bird(tweety), Bird(chilly), Bird(chirpy), Myna(chirpy) chirpy chilly, chirpy tweety, chilly tweety, Penguin(chirpy) V Penguin(chilly) Vx (Penguin(x) D 7Flies(x)) Vx (Penguin(x) 7Myna(x)) Express the statement In general, birds fly and show how the queries Flies(tweety)? , Flies(chilly)? , Flies(chirpy)? are answered using, (a) Circumscription (b) Autoepistemic logic 8. In the following problem (due to Kenneth Forbus), a ship generates superheated steam to drive its propulsion system. Water at sea temperature Tinput is taken into a boiler and steam is generated. This steam is pushed through a superheater that increases the temperature to around 500 Celsius. Let us say that the shi