his inference is being made, Dog(fido25) One can then go on to infer that LivingCreature(fido25) is also true. Classical logic also allows us to use the Hypothetical Syllogism rule to infer, Vx (Dog(x) DLivingCreature(x)) But the real problem in making inferences is that of search. An inference engine needs to find the relevant set of matching rules and facts, to make the required inferences. In a frame system, the task that is addressed is the same but with the aid of additional data the pointers linking the different frames. From the Dog frame, one has only to traverse the s-A links upward in search of the LivingCreature frame. One can imagine an algorithm that starts off at the Dog frame and passes a marker up each of the s-A links. At every intermediate ancestor, more copies are made if needed, and a mark is left behind. The mark contains information of the immediate parent (a back pointer) and the source of the marker. The markers are tokens carrying the information that has the goal (Dog frame seeking LivingCreature frame) and keep track of the path as they traverse the links. When a marker reaches the destination frame, the algorithm can terminate. Such algorithms have been called Marker Passing algorithms (Hendler, 1988). The Marker Passing algorithm can initiate search from both ends, sending out markers from the Dog frame and the LivingCreature. Hopefully, two markers from opposite sides will meet half way and achieve the goal quicker. Inferences related to the part-of relation in the aggregation hierarchy can be similarly made by a marker passing approach?. Another major advantage of building a taxonomy using the s-A relation is that data shared between different objects can be stored with an ancestor. Here are some examples from the living world. We can store the property Has-spine, yes with the frame Vertebrate, with the understanding that this property will be shared by all its specializations. Likewise, we can store a property Number-of-feet, 2 with t