ge of a feature value over the image surface. For example, the rate of change and vertical directions can be measured tal or gradient in intensity in the horizon with difference functions D, and D defined as = f(x.y) -fix - D, =jiv.y) a small integer greater than or equal to I. where W n h is en an image is scanned horizontally or vertically. D and D will vary little over homogeneous regions, and show a sharp increase or decrease at locations where discontinuities occur. They are the discrete equivalents of the continuous differential operators used in the calculus. The rate of change of the gradient can also be useful in finding local edges as we will see below. For discrete functions. te of change of gradient. comparable second order difference operators provide the ra to second order differential operators. Since we are interested in locating edges with any given orientation, a better gradient measure is one which is sensitive to intensity changes in any direction. We can achieve this with a directional norm of D and D such as the vector gradient. 2 = (D + D = tan are most easily computed by application of the equivalent For n = I, D, and D respecti Vel Y. weighting masks; the two element masks are ( I ) and An example of the application of these two masks to an image array is illustrated in Figure 14.8 where a vertical edge is seen to be quite pronounced. Masks such as these have been generalized to measure gradients over wider regions covering several pixels. This has the effect of reducing spurious noise and other sharp spikes. Two masks deserving particular attention are the Prewitt (1970) and Sobel (1970) masks as depicted in Figure 14.9. These masks are used to compute a broadened normalized gradient than the simple masks given above. We leave the details of the computations as one of the exercises at the end of this chapter. We return now to the methods of edge detection which employ smoothing followed by an application of the gradient. For this, the Conti