priate temporal constraint on the duration of the composed action. CRIKEY3 can also handle Timed Initial Literals (TIL) which are fluents that are controlled by the external environment becoming true or false at predetermined time points. For example, a shop may open at a 10 a.m. and close at 8 p.m., an eclipse may occur during a particular time interval, or a Low Earth Satellite may be visible to a ground station, only during a specific time window (see (Kavuleri and Khemani, 2004) for an extension of Sapa to handle TILs). Let t; be the time stamp associated with a TIL p. CRIKEY3 handles TILs by using dummy TIL actions at each point of time and incorporates p into F if it does not violate any overall condition of any action in E. A temporal constraint of the form t, t(i) - t(ao) t, is also added, where ao is a dummy start action. Given a partial plan, CRIKEY3 imposes a total order on the actions and eliminates the meet relation between two actions and introducing a minimal separation e between two actions. But instead of constructing envelopes and using an STN for each envelope like CRIKEY does, it does some advance reasoning that can detect some of the cycles in STN before they occur. The state representation is augmented with additional information being stored with each event e. E. This additional information constitutes of two values tmin and tmax, representing the minimum and maximum time that could have elapsed since that event. These values are updated whenever a successor state is generated, advancing the time forward. If the new state is generated by adding a start action to the plan, time moves forward by an amount e, incrementing both tmin and tmax values for elements of E. If an end event x, associated with an element x E then, for every y E that precedes x, in the total ordering, tmin is increased by max x .dmin-x, .tmax, and tmax by max x .dminX,.tmin, , and for every y, E that comes later than x, in the total ordering, tmin is incremented by e , and 