n may involve comparison with K cases in R. Finally, it is dependent on the complexity of similarity computation. The similarity of each case with the query is computed once. Sequential retrieval works fine in many simple applications, especially with increasing computing power. If one has a few thousand cases and retrieval takes a few seconds, it may be good enough (see for example (Khemani et al, 2002). However, there may be problems where sequential retrieval is not fast enough. This may be because the number of cases is very large, and or the similarity computation is very expensive. We first look at some approaches to handle a large number of cases. We take up the simpler scenario where all attributes take values in a metric space. After that, we will look at case representations where similarity computation is expensive. In both situations, there is a need to cut down on the number of similarity computations. 15.2.3 Metric Spaces and Nearest Neighbours Cases made up entirely of numeric attributes can be handled by special methods because cases in metric spaces can be thought of as points in an N-dimensional space, where N is the number of attributes. One can then define similarity as a function of a global distance between the two cases. Given two numeric attributed cases C, and Co, Cy (144, M2, MN) Co (Ng1, Ngo, .-., Nan) the following distance measures can be defined between the two cases. Manhattan Distance The Manhattan or City Block distance is a sum of the distance along each dimension. It is so named because that is the amount one would have to walk on a square grid of roads in many modern cities. distyanhattan (C1, C2) Zinn Nj Nail One can also compute the weighted Manhattan distance as, distwmanhattan (C1, C2) 2-4, Wi M4; Nail Weights could be incorporated into the distance measures described below as well. A commonly used distance measure in metric spaces is the Euclidean distance measure. Euclidean Distance disteuciidean (C1, C2) Ziet,n (M4; N2 ) )"