tt Adams (1957-) Author Known for his comic strip Dilbert So far, we have described techniques for reasoning with a complete, consistent, and unchanging model of the world. Unfortunately, in many problem domains it is not possible to create such models. In this chapter and the next, we explore techniques for solving problems with incomplete and uncertain models. 7.1 INTRODUCTION TO NONMONOTONIC REASONING In their book, The Web of Belief; Quine and Ullian [1978] provide an excellent discussion of techniques that can be used to reason effectively even when a complete, consistent, and constant model of the world is not available. One of their examples, which we call the ABC Murder story, clearly illustrates many of the main issues that such techniques must deal with. Quoting Quine and Ullian [1978]: Let Abbott, Babbitt, and Cabot be suspects in a murder case. Abbott has an alibi, in the register of a respectable hotel in Albany. Babbitt also has an alibi, for his brother-in-law testified that Babbitt was visiting him in Brooklyn at the time. Cabot pleads alibi too, claiming to have been watching a ski meet in the Catskills, but we have only his word for that. So we believe 1. That Abbott did not commit the crime 2. That Babbitt did not commit the crime 3. That Abbott or Babbitt or Cabot did. But presently Cabot documents his alibi he had the good luck to have been caught by television in the sidelines at the ski meet. A new belief is thus thrust upon us: 4. That Cabot did not. 148 Artificial Intelligence EON IRC MOREA ESN ERD OANA. Our beliefs (1) through (4) are inconsistent, so we must choose one for rejection. Which has the weakest evidence? The basis for (1) in the hotel register is good, since it is a fine old hotel. The basis for (2) is weaker, since Babbitt s brother-in-law might be lying. The basis for (3) is perhaps twofold: that there is no sign of burglary and that only Abbott, Babbitt, and Cabot seem to have stood to gain from the murder apart from burglary