 nets. Figure 15.20 shows an example of a partitioned belief space. Three different belief spaces are shown: Bill Sl believes that Mary hit Bill. Ss $2 believes that Sue hit Bill. pagent 3 believes that someone hit Bill. It is important to be able gz Sue! to handle incomplete beliefs of this kind, since they frequently serve as the basis for questions, such as, in this case. Who hit Bill? Fig. 15.20 A Partitioned Semantic Net Showing Three Belief Spaces 318 Artificial Intelligence 15.4.3. Using Goals and Plans for Understanding Consider the text John was anxious to get his daughter s new bike put together before Christmas Eve. He looked high and low for a screwdriver. To understand this story, we need to recognize that John had {. A goal, getting the bike put together. 2. A plan, which involves putting together the various subparts until the bike is complete. At least one of the resulting subplans involves using a screwdriver to screw two parts together. Some of the common goals that can be identified in stories of all softs (including children s stories, newspaper reports, and history books) are Satisfaction goals, such as sleep, food, and water. Enjoyment goals, such as entertainment and competition. Achievement goals, such as possession, power, and status. Preservation goals, such as health and possessions. Pleasing goals, which involve satisfying some other kind of goal for someone else. Instrumental goals, which enable preconditions for other, higher-level goals. To achieve their goals, people exploit plans. In Chapter 13, we talked about several computational representations of plans. These representations can be used to support natural language processing, particularly if they are combined with a knowledge base of operators and stored plans that describe the ways that people often accomplish common goals. These stored operators and plans enable an understanding system to form a coherent representation of a text even when steps have been omitted, since they sp