use the three line types given above. For boundary lines, we also need to indicate a direction, telling which side of the line corresponds to the object and which to the background. This produces a set of four labels that can be attached to a given line. We use the conventions shown in Fig. 14.12 to show line labelings. To illustrate these labelings, Figure 14.13 shows the drawing of Fig. 14.9 with each of its lines correctly labeled. Convex line Concave line + Boundary line with interior to the right (down) + Boundary line with interior to the right (up) Fig. 14.12 Line-Labeling Conventions Fig. 14.13 An Example of Line Labeling 280 Artificial Intelligence Assuming these four line types, we can calculate that the number of ways of labeling a figure composed of N lines is 4%. How can we find = NZ the correct one? The critical ohservation here is that every line must meet other lines at a vertex at cach of its ends. For the trihedral figures cor K aa we are considering, there are only four configurations that describe all the possible vertices. These four configurations are shown in Fig. 14.14. The rotational position of the vertex is not significant, nor are the sizes ARROW Ts of the angles it contains, except that the distinction between acute angles (< 90 degrees) and obtuse angles (> 90 degrees) is important to distinguish between a FORK and an ARROW. If there turn out tobe = T 7 constraints on the kinds of vertices that can occur, then there would be corresponding constraints on the lines entering the vertices and thus the number of possible line labelings would be reduced. To begin looking for such vertex constraints, we first consider the maximum number of ways that each of the four types of lines might combine with other lines at a vertex. Since an L vertex involves two lines, each of which can have four labels, there must be sixteen ways it could be formed. FORKs, Ts, and ARROWs involve three lines, so they could he formed in sixty-four ways each. Thus there