 is very high. Now test the network on the five input-output pairs it has never seen before. How well does it perform? Experiment witb the different sizes of testing and training sets, as well as hidden layers of different sizes. Finally, how does the network perform when given individuals whose beliefs are not so close to one of the four parties? 406 Artificial Intelligence AA AT TNE CUNN e C Input Vector Target Output Vector individual, party , individual, party, individualy party, individual, party, individual,, party, individual ,, party, individuatey, party, 5. Many people consider connectionism to be irrelevant to AI, because it studies intelligence at such a low level. They argue that intelligence should be modeled at a higher, more abstract level. They often relate connectionism to symbolic AI with a software metaphor that runs: If you want to study the behaviour of a complex LISP program, then you should inspect its input and outputs, its functions, its data, its general flow of control, but you should not be concered about the particular hardware the program happens to be running on. The same goes for the study of intelligence. Read both Broadbent [1985] and Rurt and Mc Clelland [1986b], and comment on this line of reasoning. In contrast to those who view connectionism merely as an implemental theory, others believe that connectionist models are too abstract and that we should look more closely at the organization of the brain for clues about how to organize artificial networks. Consider the following facts about the brain {Crick and Asanuma, 1986; Rosenzweig and Leiman, 1982], and comment on how they might affect current connectionist models of memory, learning, and problem solving: Neurons excite and inhibit one another, but an individual neuron is either purely excitatory or purely inhibitory. Neuron A cannot excite neuron B while inhibiting neuron C. e Neurons communicate through their firing rates, which range from a few spikes per second to perhaps 5