 the following sentences. The bottles are filled with wine. The bottles are filled with automatic machines. Adora killed the cockroaches with insecticide. Abasi ate the ice cream with gusto. Abasi ate the ice cream with a spoon. Their hearts were filled with pride (like the bottles filled with wine but not quite). 7. He shot the girl with the rifle. 8. He shot the girl with the boy. 9. She ate the ice cream with the boy. 10. He fought with his brother against the intruders. 11. He fought with his brother. 12. He went pale with fear. 13. She left the notebooks with me. 14. Ajinkya s brother used to live with him. 15. She helped the man with the broken arm. Schank reported the following four conceptual realizations of the phrase with PP . The EL parser considers the senses in the given order and chooses the first one that fits. 1. PP is the object of the instrumental case. In sentence 3 above the insecticide is the object of some action that is an instrumental act for the state change verb kill. 2. PP is an additional actor of the conceptualization. Sentence 9 is an example. 3. PP is an attribute of PP immediately preceding it. In sentence 15 with the broken arm describes the man. 4. PP is an attribute of the actor of the conceptualization. We can think of Kgusteit.donsentence 4 as an attribute of Abasi, though perhaps it also QaPRwoOn a describes the action to some extent. In addition we can find roles that the word with plays" in ait te aiding of a conceptualization. In sentence 13 with me identifies me as the recipient of the ATRANS action. Sentence 14 says that Ajinkya s brother stays in Ajinkya s house. In sentence 12 there is a causal connection between the state of being afraid and the state change of turning pale. Sentences 11 and 12 have the common phrase with his brother though the relation between the two in the respective conceptualizations is quite different. Some of the sentences in the list above are inherently ambiguous in the sense that with is used i