uments of predicates must be terms (constants, variables, or functions). Therefore, the domain of each n-place predicate is also defined over D. For example, our domain might be all entities that make up the Computer Science Department at the University of Texas. In this case, constants would he professors (Bell. Cooke. Gelfond. and so on), staff (Martha. Pat. Linda, and so on). books, labs, offices, and so forth. The functions we may choose might he Predicates may be quantified in .ceeond order predicate logic as indicated in the example. but never ip first order logic. Sec. 4.3 Syntax and Semantics for FOPL 59 advisor-of(x). lab-capacity(y), dept-grade-average(z), and the predicates MAR - name a few. RIED(x). TENURED(y). COLLABORATE(X.Y). to When an assignment of values is given to each term and to each predicate symbol in a wif, we say an interpretation is given to the wif. Since literals always evaluate to either true or false under an interpretation, the value of any given wff can be determined by referring to a truth table such as Table 4.2 which gives truth values for the subexpression S of the wff. If the truth values for two different wffs are the same under every interpretation, they are said to he equivalent. A predicate (or wffl that has no variables is called a ground atom. When determining the truth value of a compound expression, we must he careful in evaluating predicates that have variable arguments. since they evaluate to true only if they are true for the appropriate value(s) of the variables. For example. the predicate P(x) in Vx P(x), is true only if it is true for every value of x in the domain D. Likewise, the P(x) in -jr P(x) is true only if it is true for at least one value of x in the domain. If the above conditions are not satisfied, the predicate evaluates to false. Suppose, for example. we want to evaluate the truth , value of the expression E, where E: Vx ((A)a.x) V B(t(x)() & Chc)) -. Dlx) In this expression, there are four predicates: