g process, it is useful to survey ail of them and see how they fit together. Roughly, we can break the process down into the following Pieces: Morphological Analysis Individual words are analyzed into their components, and nonword tokens, such as punctuation, are separated from the words. Syntactic Analysis Linear sequences of words are transformed into structures that show how the words relate to each other. Some word sequences may be rejected if they violate the language s rules for how words may be combined. For example, an English syntactic analyzer would reject the sentence Boy the go the to store. Semantic Analysis The structures created by the syntactic analyzer are assigned meanings. In other words, a mapping is made between the syntactic structures and objects in the task domain. Structures for which no such mapping is possible may be rejected. For example, in most universes, the sentence Colorless green ideas sleep furiously [Chomsky, 1957] would be rejected as semantically anomolous. Discourse Integration The meaning of an individual sentence may depend on the sentences that precede it and may intluence the meanings of the sentences that follow it. For example, the word it in the sentence, John wanted it, depends on the prior discourse context, while the word John may influence the meaning of later sentences (such as, He always had. ) Pragmatic Analysis The structure representing what was said is reinterpreted to determine what was actually meant. For example, the sentence Do you know what time it is? should be interpreted as a request to be told the time. The boundaries between these five phases are often very fuzzy. The phases are sometimes performed in sequence, and they are sometimes performed all at once. If they are performed in sequence, one may need to appeal for assistance to another. For example, part of the process of performing the syntactic analysis of the sentence Is the glass jar peanut butter? is deciding how to form two noun phrases out o