t of the syntactic component by producing meanings and sound sequences. The transformations are essentially tree manipulatiortrules which depend on the use of an extended lexicon (dictionary) containing a number of semantic features for each word. Using a transformational generative grammar. a sentence is analyzed in two stages. In one stage the basic structure of the sentence is analyzed to determine the 236 Natural Language Processing Chap, 12 ""^ I S NP Vp NP 'VP V NP Sue VERB pp kiss Si.is AUX V PREP NP was kiss by Joe (a) (b) Figure 12.2 Sti-ucturei for (a) active and (b) passive voice. grammatical constituent parts. This reveals the surface structure of the sentence, the way the sentence is used in speech or in writing. This structure can be transformed into another one where the deeper semantic structure of the sentence is determined. Application of the transformation rules can produce a change from passive voice to active voice, change a question to declarative form, and handle negations. subject-verb agreement, and so on For example, the structure in 12.2(b) could be transformed to give the same basic structure as that of 12.2(a) as is illustrated in Figure 12.3. Transformational grammars were never widely adopted as computational models of natural language. Instead, other grammars. including case grammars, have had more influence on such models. Case Grammars A case relates to the semantic role that a noun phrase plays with respect to verbs and adjectives. Case grammars use the functional relationships between noun phrases and verbs to reveal the deeper case of a sentence. These grammars use the fact Joe V NP PASS IVE I I I Figure 12.3 Passive voice transformed kiss Sue by to active voice. Sec. 12.3 Grammars and Languages 237 that verbal elements provide the main source of structure in a sentence since they describe the subject and objects. In inflected languages like Latin, nouns generally have different ending forms for different cases. In English these 