manner, with H '(x) 0. Observe that H stands for a family of functions that are monotonic over the given domain and range. If at a distinguished time point the different variables related by a particular constraint all have some landmark values, then those values are known as corresponding values. For example, consider the amount of pressure exerted by a fluid in a vessel. If the amount (volume) of fluid is zero then the pressure would be zero, and (0,0) would be corresponding values for the two variables. In the example that follows, we continue to use the direct (mathematical) forms of the above constraints for the sake of readability. Consider an example in which there are two tanks, A and B, connected by a pipe at the base, as shown in Figure 17.914. The capacity of tank A is AMAX and tank B is BMAX. In the qualitative reasoning that follows, we do not need the actual numerical values. We assume that the connecting pipe is a conduit that does not have any effect of its own, and that the flow of the fluid is such that momentum has no impact. This could happen for example if the fluid has high viscosity. S A Figure 17.9 Two tanks connected with a pipe at the base. The model for the two tanks is based on relations on the following qualitative variables shown with their quantity spaces. Table 17.3 The variables in the 2-tank system Variable name Quantity space Description amtA (0, AMAX, e) Amount (volume) of fluid in tank 4 amtB (0, BMAX, ) Amount (volume) of fluid in tank B total (0, 2) amid amB pressure (0, 2 ) Pressure at the base of tank 4 pressureB (0, 2) Pressure at the base of tank B DAB (2. 0, ce) Pressure drop from 4 to B SlowAB ( , 0, 2) Flow from 4 to B Observe that the quantity spaces above, capture only partial knowledge. One could introduce more landmarks, for example a value maxPressureA for the pressureA variable, and likewise for pressureB, pAB, and flowAB. However, these are enough for the reasoning to start with, and QSIM allows for more landmarks