axioms of
situation calculus.
a. Consider the schema for Fly(p,from,to). Write a logical definition for the predicate
Poss(Fly(p,from,to),s), which is true if the preconditions for Fly(p,from,to) are
satisfiedinsituation s.
b. Next, assuming that Fly(p,from,to) is the only action schema available to the agent,
write down a successor-state axiom for At(p,x,s) that captures the same information
astheactionschema.
400 Chapter 10. Classical Planning
c. Now suppose there is an additional method of travel: Teleport(p,from,to). It has
theadditionalprecondition Warped(p)andtheadditionaleffect Warped(p). Explain
howthesituation calculus knowledgebasemustbemodified.
d. Finally, develop a general and precisely specified procedure forcarrying out the trans-
lationfromasetofactionschemastoasetofsuccessor-state axioms.
10.16 In the SATPLAN algorithm in Figure 7.22 (page 272), each call to the satisfiabil-
ity algorithm asserts a goal g T, where T ranges from 0 to T . Suppose instead that the
max
satisfiability algorithm iscalledonlyonce,withthegoal g0 g1 g Tmax.
a. Willthisalwaysreturnaplanifoneexistswithlengthless thanorequalto T ?
max
b. Doesthisapproach introduce anynewspurious solutions ?
c. Discuss how one might modify a satisfiability algorithm such as WALKSAT so that it
findsshortsolutions (iftheyexist)whengivenadisjunctive goalofthisform.
11
PLANNING AND ACTING
IN THE REAL WORLD
Inwhichweseehow moreexpressive representations and moreinteractive agent
architectures leadtoplanners thatareusefulintherealworld.
Thepreviouschapterintroduced themostbasicconcepts, representations, andalgorithmsfor
planning. Planners that are are used in the real world for planning and scheduling the oper-
ations of spacecraft, factories, and military campaigns are more complex; they extend both
the representation language and the way the planner interacts with the environment. This
chapter shows how. Section 11.1 extends the classical language for planning to talk about
actions with durations an