product offers on the Internet. The shopping agent is
given a product description by the buyer and has the task of producing a list of Web pages
that offer such a product for sale, and ranking which offers are best. In some cases the
buyer s product description will be precise, as in Canon Rebel XTi digital camera, and the
taskisthentofindthestore(s) withthebestoffer. Inothercases thedescription willbeonly
partially specified, as in digital camera for under 300, and the agent will have to compare
differentproducts.
Theshoppingagent senvironmentistheentire World Wide Webinitsfullcomplexity not atoy simulated environment. Theagent s percepts are Webpages, but whereas ahuman
Section12.7. The Internet Shopping World 463
Example Online Store
Selectfromourfinelineofproducts: Computers Cameras Books Videos Music h1 Example Online Store h1 i Select i from our fine line of products: ul li a href "http: example.com compu" Computers a li a href "http: example.com camer" Cameras a li a href "http: example.com books" Books a li a href "http: example.com video" Videos a li a href "http: example.com music" Music a ul Figure12.8 AWebpagefromagenericonlinestoreintheformperceivedby thehuman
userofabrowser(top),andthecorresponding HTM Lstringas perceivedbythebrowseror
theshoppingagent(bottom). In HTML,charactersbetween and aremarkupdirectives
that specify how the page is displayed. For example, the string i Select i means
toswitch to italic font, displaytheword Select, andthenendtheuse ofitalic font. A page
identifiersuchashttp: example.com booksiscalledauniformresourcelocator
(URL).Themarkup a href "url" Books a meanstocreateahypertextlinkto url
withtheanchortext Books.
Web user would see pages displayed as an array of pixels on a screen, the shopping agent
willperceive apage asacharacter string consisting ofordinary words interspersed withfor-
matting commands in the HTML markup language. Figure 12.8 shows a Web page and a
corresponding HTML character string. The perception problem 