articular problem as a combination of known techniques (each represented as a rule defining a single step in the space) and search, the general technique of exploring the space to try to find some path from the current state to a goal state. Search is a very important process in the solution of hard problems for which no more direct techniques are available. In order to show the generality of the state space representation, we use it to deseribe a problem very different from that of chess. A Water Jug Problem: You are given two jugs, a 4-gallon one and a 3-gallon one. Neither has any measuring markers on it. There is a pump that can be used to fill the jugs with water. How can you get exactly 2 gallons of water into the 4-gallon jug? The state space for this problem can be described as the set of ordered pairs of integers (x, y), such that x = 0. 1, 2. 3, or 4 and y = 0, 1, 2, or 3; x represents the number of gallons of water in the 4-gallon jug, and y represents the quantity of water in the 3-gallon jug. The start state is (0, 0). The goal state is (2, n) for any value of n (since the problem does not specify how many gallons need to be in the 3-gallon jug). The operators? to be used to solve the problem can be described as shown in Fig. 2.3. As in the chess problem, they are represented as rules whose left sides are matched against the current state and whose right sides describe the new state that results from applying the rule. Notice that in order to describe the operators completely, it was necessary to make explicit some assumptions not mentioned in the problem statement. We have assumed that we can fill a jug from the pump, that we can pour water out of 4 jug onto the ground, that we can pour water from one jug to another, and that there are no other measuring devices available. Additional assumptions such as these are almost always required when converting from a typical problein statement given in English to a formal representation of the problem suitable 