ermsteps,
thentheplanachievesthegoalifb A G ,thatis,ifb A G isunsatisfiable.
0 m m 0 m m
Givenamodern SA Tsolver,itmaybepossibletodothismuchmorequicklythancomputing
thefull belief state. Forexample, ifnoneofthe actions inthe sequence hasaparticular goal
fluent in its add list, the solver will detect this immediately. It also helps if partial results
aboutthebeliefstate forexample,fluentsknowntobetrueorfalse arecachedtosimplify
subsequent computations.
The final piece of the sensorless planning puzzle is a heuristic function to guide the
search. The meaning of the heuristic function is the same as for classical planning: an esti-
mate(perhaps admissible) ofthecostofachieving thegoal from thegivenbelief state. With
belief states, we have one additional fact: solving any subset of a belief state is necessarily
easierthansolvingthebeliefstate:
ifb b thenh (b ) h (b ).
1 2 1 2
Hence,anyadmissibleheuristiccomputedforasubsetisadmissibleforthebeliefstateitself.
Themostobvious candidates arethesingleton subsets, thatis,individual physicalstates. We
Section11.3. Planningand Actingin Nondeterministic Domains 421
can take any random collection of states s ,...,s that are in the belief state b, apply any
1 N
admissible heuristic hfrom Chapter10,andreturn
H(b) max h(s ),...,h(s ) 1 N
astheheuristicestimateforsolving b. Wecouldalsouseaplanninggraphdirectlyonbitself:
if it is a conjunction of literals (1-CNF), simply set those literals to be the initial state layer
ofthegraph. Ifbisnotin1-CNF,itmaybepossibletofindsetsofliteralsthattogetherentail
b. For example, if b is in disjunctive normal form (DNF), each term of the DNF formula is
a conjunction of literals that entails b and can form the initial layer of a planning graph. As
before,wecantakethemaximumoftheheuristics obtainedfromeachsetofliterals. Wecan
also use inadmissible heuristics such as the ignore-delete-lists heuristic (page 377), which
seemstoworkquitewellinpractice.
11.3.2 Contingent planning
We saw in Chapter 4 that co