s. Applying ILP directly to learn
this predicate results inpoor performance: the induced parserhas only about 20 accuracy.
Fortunately, IL Plearners canimprovebyadding knowledge. Inthiscase, mostofthe Parse
predicate was defined as a logic program, and CHILL s task was reduced to inducing the
controlrulesthatguidetheparsertoselectoneparseoveranother. Withthisadditional back-
ground knowledge, CHILL can learn to achieve 70 to 85 accuracy on various database
querytasks.
23.3.5 Complications
Thegrammarofreal Englishisendlessly complex. Wewillbrieflymentionsomeexamples.
Time and tense: Suppose we want to represent the difference between John loves
TIMEANDTENSE
Mary and Johnloved Mary. Englishusesverbtenses(past, present,andfuture)toindicate
Section23.3. Augmented Grammarsand Semantic Interpretation 903
S(pred(obj)) NP(obj) VP(pred)
VP(pred(obj)) Verb(pred)NP(obj)
NP(obj) Name(obj)
Name(John) John
Name(Mary) Mary
Verb( y x Loves(x,y)) loves
Figure23.10 Agrammarthatcanderiveaparsetreeandsemanticinterpretationfor John
loves Mary (andthreeothersentences).Eachcategoryisaugmentedwithasingleargument
representingthesemantics.
S(Loves(John,Mary))
VP( x Loves(x,Mary))
NP(John)
NP(Mary)
Name(John) Verb( y x Loves(x,y)) Name(Mary)
John loves Mary
Figure23.11 Aparsetreewithsemanticinterpretationsforthestring Johnloves Mary .
the relative time of an event. One good choice to represent the time of events is the event
calculus notationof Section12.3. Ineventcalculuswehave
Johnlovesmary:E Loves(John,Mary) During(Now,Extent(E ))
1 1
Johnlovedmary:E Loves(John,Mary) After(Now,Extent(E )).
2 2
Thissuggests thatourtwolexicalrulesforthewords loves and loved should bethese:
Verb( y x e Loves(x,y) During(Now,e)) loves
Verb( y x e Loves(x,y) After(Now,e)) loved.
Other than this change, everything else about the grammar remains the same, which is en-
couraging news; it suggests we are on the right track if wecan so easily add a complication
like the tense of verbs (although we have just scratche