tohandlethisinformation.
For example, partial-order planners can detect resource constraint violations in much the
same way they detect conflicts with causal links. Heuristics can be devised to estimate the
totalcompletion timeofaplan. Thisiscurrently anactiveareaofresearch.
406 Chapter 11. Planningand Actinginthe Real World
11.2 HIERARCHICAL PLANNING
Theproblem-solving andplanningmethodsoftheprecedingchaptersalloperatewithafixed
set of atomic actions. Actions can be strung together into sequences orbranching networks;
state-of-the-art algorithms cangenerate solutions containing thousands ofactions.
Forplans executed by the human brain, atomic actions are muscle activations. In very
round numbers, we have about 103 muscles to activate (639, by some counts, but many of
themhavemultiple subunits); wecanmodulatetheiractivation perhaps 10timespersecond;
and we are alive and awake for about 109 seconds in all. Thus, a human life contains about
1013 actions, give or take one or two orders of magnitude. Even if we restrict ourselves to
planning overmuchshorter timehorizons for example, atwo-weekvacation in Hawaii a
detailed motorplanwouldcontainaround 1010 actions. Thisisalotmorethan1000.
Tobridgethisgap,AIsystemswillprobablyhavetodowhathumansappeartodo: plan
at higher levels of abstraction. A reasonable plan for the Hawaii vacation might be Go to
San Franciscoairport;take Hawaiian Airlinesflight11to Honolulu;dovacationstufffortwo
weeks;take Hawaiian Airlinesflight12backto San Francisco;gohome. Givensuchaplan,
the action Go to San Francisco airport can be viewed as a planning task in itself, with a
solution such as Drive to the long-term parking lot; park; take the shuttle to the terminal. Eachofthese actions, inturn, canbedecomposed further, until wereach thelevelofactions
thatcanbeexecutedwithoutdeliberation togeneratetherequired motorcontrolsequences.
In this example, we see that planning can occur both before and during the execution
of the plan; for example, one would