icantly lower knowledge acquisition overheads. Rule-based translation systems parse the text in source language to produce an internal representation which is then transferred to the target language and rendered into text. Sometimes, this threefold process is referred to as structural transfer. We show an example below, showing steps in transferring a sentence from English to Hindi. A Lexicalization A. Vv Transfer Np oP we Vv A Priya A Priya Vv told DET DET NP mae DET NP la sunaayi ADJ N a ADJ N ADIN nice story nice story sundar kahaani Figure 16.15 Steps in classical machine translation. The input sentence is Priya told a nice story . In Step 1, knowledge of English language grammar is used to create a parse tree of the sentence. In the structural transfer step, aspects of translation like word order reversals are taken care of. In the current example, a Subject-VerbObject structure has been converted to a Subject-Object-Verb structure. The translated sentence is obtained in the final step of lexicalization and rendering, which typically makes use of target language grammar. A case marker ne may be added as part of post-processing to yield the output Priya ne ek sundar kahaani sunaayi . Each of these steps rely on a large number of rules for handling issues like morphology, parsing in the face of ambiguities, and for capturing knowledge in source-target language transfer. The basic motivation behind statistical or corpus based MT is to use machine learning approaches to acquire the knowledge needed in translation. The source of this knowledge is a parallel corpus, which has a set of sentences in source and target languages. The idea of a noisy channel is relevant here. Given a Hindi sentence H, we intend to find an English sentence E that maximizes P(E H), which is, by Bayes Rule, a function of two quantities P(H E) and P(E). The former is called the translation model and the latter, the language model. The idea of language models has received a lot of attention ov