ly and dark pixels
come from patches that see the light only tangentially, so that the shading on a surface pro-
vides some shape information. We explore this cue in Section 24.4.5. If the surface is not
reached bythelight source, thenitisin shadow. Shadowsareveryseldom auniform black,
SHADOW
because the shadowed surface receives some light from other sources. Outdoors, the most
important such source is the sky, which is quite bright. Indoors, light reflected from other
surfaces illuminates shadowed patches. These interreflections can have a significant effect
INTERREFLECTIONS
on the brightness of other surfaces, too. These effects are sometimes modeled by adding a
AMBIENT constant ambientilluminationtermtothepredicted intensity.
ILLUMINATION
Section24.2. Early Image-Processing Operations 935
24.1.5 Color
Fruit is a bribe that a tree offers to animals to carry its seeds around. Trees have evolved to
have fruit that turns red oryellow when ripe, and animals have evolved todetect these color
changes. Light arriving at the eye has different amounts of energy at different wavelengths;
thiscanberepresented byaspectralenergydensityfunction. Humaneyesrespondtolightin
the 380 750nm wavelength region, with three different types of color receptor cells, which
have peakreceptiveness at420mm (blue), 540nm (green), and 570nm (red). Thehumaneye
cancaptureonlyasmallfractionofthefullspectralenergy densityfunction butitisenough
totellwhenthefruitisripe.
PRINCIPLEOF Theprincipleoftrichromacystatesthatforanyspectralenergydensity,nomatterhow
TRICHROMACY
complicated,itispossibletoconstructanotherspectralenergydensityconsistingofamixture
ofjustthreecolors usually red,green,andblue suchthat ahumancan ttellthedifference
between the two. That means that our TVs and computer displays can get by with just the
three red green blue (or R G B) color elements. It makes our computer vision algorithms
easier, too. Each surface can be modeled with three different albedos for R G B. Similarly,
each l