 to find the affinities. Table 24.1 shows some such distances. Table 24.1 Some Distance Measuring Techniques L Euclidean Distance D, art > (Ay; - Ay) = S ist L Manhattan Distance Dy = SIA, ~ Agi | i= L Hamming Distance Dy => 5; 5,=1if Ay * Ag il = 0 otherwise. Symbolic Distance D, Quality Reliability Scalability Unit Cost Ant Excellent Moderate High 1964 Ay Good Low Low 872 A, Moderate Ds(Ap Ap) i Dsf Ayo, Ay) 0 24.10.Z2 Case Studies Modeling an AIS to suit an application can best be understood by taking typical examples. We discuss two of the most diverse applications to comprehend the mechanism by which we can apply the immune theory to realize a real working system. The first uses the more frequently used principle of Clonal Selection while the second is based on the Immune Network Theory. Case-I: Network Security In today's world the problems involved in computer network security are known to everyone. In this section we try to solve the problem of intrusion detection. The problem discussed herein is specific to a broadcast LAN wherein every system on the network has access to the packets travelling through the network. The Artificial Immune System is to detect and signal the existence of any intruder. The technique described here is based on ARTIS (ARTificial Immune System), the work done by Forrest and Hofmeyr (2000). The connections between two computers in the network in focus, can be visualized as having the following three attributes (i) An Internet Protocol (IP) address of the source, (ii) An Internet Protoco! UP) address of the destination and (iii) The Port number through which the system communicates compressed and represented as a single 49-bit string that defines a connection between two computers. As an example (23.23.7.30, 23.23.7.40, 40) could designate a connection between two systems having IP addresses 488 Artificial Intelligence AERATOR RE ARLEN ART 23.23.7.30 and 23.23.7.40 using the port number 40. Thus each of the connections is defined by 