e look at one way of parsing with a more declarative representation. 15.2.2. Augmented Transition Networks An augmented transition network (ATN) is a top-down parsing procedure that allows various kinds of knowledge to be incorporated into the parsing system so it can operate efficiently. Since the early use of the ATN in the LUNAR system [Woods, 1973], which provided access to a large database of information on lunar geology, the mechanism has been exploited in many language-understanding systems. The ATN is similar to a finite state machine in which the class of labels that can be attached to the arcs that define transitions between states has been augmented. Arcs may be labeled with an arbitrary combination of the following: Specific words, such as in. Word categories, such as noun. e Pushes to other networks that recognize significant components of a sentence. For example, a network designed to recognize a prepositional phrase (PP) may include an arc that asks for ( pushes for ) a noun phrase (NP). Procedures that perform arbitrary tests on both the current input and on sentence components that have already been identified. Procedures that build structures that will form part of the final parse. Figure 15.8 shows an example of an ATN in graphical notation. Figure 15.9 shows the top-level ATN of that example in a notation that a program could read. To see how an ATN works, let us trace the execution of this ATN as it parses the following sentence: The long file has printed. This execution proceeds as follows: Begin in state S. Push to NP. Do a category test to see if the is a determiner. This test succeeds, so set the DETERMINER register to DEFINITE and go to state Q6. Do a category test to see if long is an adjective. A PWN = ii 296 Artificial Intelligence Fig. 15.8 An ATN Network for a Fragment of English (S/ (PUSH NP/T (SETR SUBJ *) (SETR TYPE (QUOTE DCL)) (To a1) (CAT AUX T (SETR AUX *) (SETR TYPE (QUOTE )) (TO Q2))) (QQ (CAT VT (SETR AUX NIL) (SETR V*) (TO 0