empty, or, recursively, if any assertion in its IN-list has a nonmonotonic justification. Otherwise, it is monotonic. In a TMS network, nodes are labeled with a belief status. If the assertion corresponding to the node should be believed, then in the TMS it is labeled IN. If there is no good reason to believe the assertion, then it is labeled OUT. What does it mean that an assertion should be believed or has no good reason for belief? ATMS answers these questions for a dependency network in a way that is independent of any interpretation of the assertions associated with the nodes. The /abeling task of a TMS is to label each node so that two criteria about the dependency network structure are met. The first criterion is consistency: every node labeled IN is supported by at least one valid justification and all other nodes are labeled OUT. More specifically than before, a justification is valid if every node in its IN-list is labeled IN and every node in its OUT-list is labeled OUT. Notice that in Fig. 7.5, all of the assertions would have to be labeled OUT to be consistent. Alibi Abbott has no justification at all, much less a valid one, and so must be labeled OUT. But the same is true for Beneficiary Abbott, so it must be OUT as well. Then the justification for Suspect Abbott is invalid because an element of its IN-list is labeled OUT. Suspect Abbott would then be labeled OUT as well. Thus status labels correspond to our belief or lack of it in assertions, and justifications Correspond to our reasons for such belief, with valid justifications being our good reasons. Notice that the label OUT may indicate that we have specific reason to believe that a node represents an assertion that is not true, or it may mean simply that we have no information one way or the other. But the state of affairs in Fig. 7.5 is incomplete. We are told Suspect Abbott [IN] that Abbott is a beneficiary. We have no further justification for this fact; we must simply accept it. For such fact