esent knowledge in three
simpledomains. Thissectiondescribesthegeneralprocessofknowledge-baseconstruction KNOWLEDGE aprocesscalledknowledgeengineering. Aknowledgeengineerissomeonewhoinvestigates
ENGINEERING
aparticular domain, learns whatconcepts areimportant inthatdomain, andcreates aformal
representation of the objects and relations in the domain. We illustrate the knowledge engi-
neering process in anelectronic circuit domain that should already befairly familiar, so that
wecanconcentrate ontherepresentational issues involved. Theapproach wetakeissuitable
for developing special-purpose knowledge bases whose domain is carefully circumscribed
and whose range of queries is known in advance. General-purpose knowledge bases, which
cover a broad range of human knowledge and are intended to support tasks such as natural
language understanding, arediscussed in Chapter12.
8.4.1 The knowledge-engineering process
Knowledge engineering projects vary widely in content, scope, and difficulty, but all such
projects includethefollowingsteps:
1. Identify the task. The knowledge engineer must delineate the range of questions that
the knowledge base will support and the kinds of facts that will be available for each
specific problem instance. Forexample, does the wumpus knowledge base need to be
able to choose actions or is it required to answer questions only about the contents
of the environment? Will the sensor facts include the current location? The task will
determinewhatknowledgemustberepresentedinordertoconnectprobleminstancesto
answers. Thisstepisanalogoustothe PEA Sprocessfordesigning agentsin Chapter2.
2. Assembletherelevant knowledge. Theknowledge engineer might already beanexpert
in the domain, or might need to work with real experts to extract what they know a
KNOWLEDGE process called knowledgeacquisition. Atthisstage, theknowledge isnotrepresented
ACQUISITION
formally. Theideaistounderstand thescope oftheknowledge base, asdetermined by
thetask,andtounderstand howthedo