ILLING-T0-PERFORM(3, R)) BELIEVE(A, ~WILL(PERFORM(8, R))) Natural Language Processing 321 en SOUR ET A RAPIER TERETE PSTE If we assume that each participant in a dialogue is following these conventions, then it is possible to infer facts about the participants belief states from what they say. Those facts can then be used as a basis for constructing a coherent interpretation of a discourse as a whole. To summarize, we have just described several techniques for representing knowledge about how people act and talk. This knowledge plays an important role in text and discourse understanding, since it enables an understander to fill in the gaps left by the original writer or speaker. It turns out that many of these same mechanisms, in particular those that allow us to represent explicitly the goals and beliefs of multiple agents, will also tum out to be useful in constructing distributed reasoning systems, in which several (at least partially independent) agents interact to achieve a single goal. We come back to this topic in Section 16.3. 15.5 STATISTICAL NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING Long sentences most often give rise to ambiguities when conventional grammars are used to process the same. The processing of such sentences may yield a large number of analyses. It is here that the statistical information extracted from a large corpus of the concerned language can aid in disambiguation. Since a complete study of how statistics can aid natural language processing cannot be discussed, we try to highlight some issues that will kindle the reader s interest in the same. 15.5.1 Corpora The term corpus is derived from the Latin word meaning body . The term could be used to define a collection of written text or spoken words of a language. In general a corpus could be defined as a large collection of segments of a language. These segments are selected and ordered based on some explicit linguistic criteria so that they may be used to depict a sample of that language. Corpora may be 