complicated, and, since they are usually converted into SIs anyway, we only mention their main functions here. For a more detailed account see Doyle (1979). We have briefly described the JTMS here since it is the simplest and most widely used truth maintenance system. This type of TMS is also known as a nonmonotonic TMS (NMTMS). Several other types have been developed to correct some of the deficiencies of the JTMS-end to meet other requirements. They include the logic-based TMS (the LTMS), and the assumption-based TMS (the AIMS), as well as others (de Kleer, I986a and 1986b). 5.3 DEFAULT REASONING AND THE CLOSED WORLD ASSUMPTION Another form of uncertainty occurs as a result of incomplete knowledge. One way humans deal with this problem is by making plausible default assumptions; that is. we make assumptions which typically hold but may have to be retracted if new 88 Dealing with Inconsistencies and Uncertainties Chap. 5 information is obtained to the contrary. For example, if you have an acquaintance named Pat who is over 20 years old, you would normally assume that this person would drive a car. Later, if you learned Pat had suffered from blackouts until just recently, you would be forced to revise your beliefs. Default Reasoning Default reasoning is another form of nonmonotonic reasoning; it eliminates the need to explicitly store all facts regarding a situation. Reiter (1980) develops a theory of default' reasoning within the context of traditional logics. A default is expressed as a(x):Mb1(x)..... Mb&(x) (5.1) c(4 where a(x) is a precondition wif for the conclusion wif Ox), M is a consistency operator and the b,(x) are conditions, each of which must be separately consistent with the KB for the conclusion c(x) to hold. As an example, suppose we wish to make the statement, "If x is an adult and it is consistent to assume that x can drive, then infer that x can drive." Using the above formula this would be represented as ADULT(x) MDRJVE(x) DRIVE(x) Default theori