Otherstrongphilosophicalargumentshavebeenputforwardfortheuseofprobabilities,
mostnotably those of Cox(1946), Carnap (1950), and Jaynes (2003). Theyeach construct a
set of axioms for reasoning with degrees of beliefs: no contradictions, correspondence with
ordinary logic (forexample, ifbelief in Agoes up, thenbelief in Amustgodown), andso
on. The only controversial axiom is that degrees of belief must be numbers, or at least act
likenumbersinthattheymustbetransitive(ifbeliefin Aisgreaterthanbeliefin B,whichis
greaterthan beliefin C,then belief in Amustbegreater than C)andcomparable (thebelief
in Amustbeoneofequalto,greaterthan,orlessthanbeliefin B). Itcanthenbeprovedthat
probability istheonlyapproach thatsatisfiestheseaxioms.
The world being the way it is, however, practical demonstrations sometimes speak
louder than proofs. The success of reasoning systems based on probability theory has been
muchmoreeffectiveinmakingconverts. Wenowlookathowtheaxiomscanbedeployedto
makeinferences.
13.3 INFERENCE USING FULL JOINT DISTRIBUTIONS
PROBABILISTIC Inthissectionwedescribeasimplemethodforprobabilisticinference that is,thecompu-
INFERENCE
tation of posterior probabilities for query propositions given observed evidence. We use the
fulljointdistributionasthe knowledgebase fromwhichanswerstoallquestionsmaybede-
rived. Alongthewaywealsointroduce severalusefultechniques formanipulating equations
involving probabilities.
Section13.3. Inference Using Full Joint Distributions 491
WHERE DO PROBABILITIES COME FROM?
There has been endless debate over the source and status of probability numbers.
The frequentist position is that the numbers can come only from experiments: if
we test 100 people and find that 10 of them have a cavity, then we can say that
the probability of a cavity is approximately 0.1. In this view, the assertion the
probability ofacavityis0.1 meansthat0.1isthefraction thatwouldbeobserved
in the limit of infinitely many samples. From any finite sample, we can estimate
the