effectors are also limited in precision. e Many robots must react in real time. A robot fighter plane, for example, cannot afford to search optimally or to stop monitoring the world during a LISP garbage collection. The real world is unpredictable, dynamic, and uncertain. A robot cannot hope to maintain a correct and complete description of the world. This means that a robot must consider the trade-off between devising and executing plans. This trade-off has several aspects. For one thing, a robot may not possess enough information about the world for it to do any useful planning. In that case, it must first engage in information-gathering activity. Furthermore, once it begins executing a plan, the robot must continually monitor the results of its actions. If the results are unexpected, then replanning may be necessary. Consider the problem of traveling across town. We might decide to take a bus, but without a bus schedule, it is impossible to complete the plan. So we make a plan for acquiring a schedule and execute it in the world. Now we can plan our route. The bus we want to take may be scheduled to arrive at 5:22 p.m., but the probability of it coming at exactly 5:22 p.m. is actually very small. We should stick to our plan and wait, even if the bus is late. After a while, if the bus still has not come, we must make a new plan. Because robots must operate in the real world, searching and backtracking can be costly. Consider the problem of moving furniture into a room. Operating in a simulated world with full information, an AI program can come up with an optimal plan by best-first search. Preconditions of operators can be checked quickly, and if an operator fails to apply, another can be tried. Checking preconditions in the real world, however, can be time-consuming if the robot does not have full information. For example, one operator may require that an object weigh less than fifty pounds. Navigating to the object and applying a force to it may take the robot s