e,canyourememberwhichofthefollowingtwophrasesformedtheopening
of Section8.1? Inthissection, wediscussthenatureofrepresentation languages ... Thissectioncoversthetopicofknowledge representation languages ... Wanner (1974) did a similar experiment and found that subjects made the right choice at
chance level about 50 of the time but remembered the content of what they read with
betterthan90 accuracy. Thissuggests thatpeople process thewordstoform somekindof
nonverbal representation.
More interesting is the case in which a concept is completely absent in a language.
Speakers of the Australian aboriginal language Guugu Yimithirr have no words for relative
directions, such as front, back, right, or left. Instead they use absolute directions, saying,
for example, the equivalent of I have a pain in my north arm. This difference in language
makes a difference in behavior: Guugu Yimithirr speakers are better at navigating in open
terrain, while Englishspeakers arebetteratplacingtheforktotherightoftheplate.
Language also seems to influence thought through seemingly arbitrary grammatical
features such as the gender of nouns. For example, bridge is masculine in Spanish and
feminine in German. Boroditsky (2003) asked subjects to choose English adjectives to de-
scribe a photograph of a particular bridge. Spanish speakers chose big, dangerous, strong,
andtowering,whereas Germanspeakerschosebeautiful,elegant,fragile,andslender. Words
can serve as anchor points that affect how weperceive the world. Loftus and Palmer(1974)
showed experimental subjects a movie of an auto accident. Subjects who were asked How
fast were the cars going when they contacted each other? reported an average of 32 mph,
whilesubjects whowereaskedthequestion withtheword smashed insteadof contacted reported 41mphforthesamecarsinthesamemovie.
288 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
Inafirst-orderlogicreasoningsystemthatuses CNF,wecanseethatthelinguisticform (A B) and A B are the same because we can look inside the syst