d, and packaged by an organized mini-society, and sold to us by someone else. Everything we use in our daily lives goes through a similar process, and we are able to enjoy a rich and bountiful existence because each of us is occupied with doing something well, for the benefit of many others. Technological advancement combined with an organized society has created spaces in which sections of society can devote their energies towards things beyond our basic necessities. Humankind has developed music, literature, painting, sculpture, theatre and many other art forms to cater to our minds. Research in science and society pushes the frontier of our understanding further and further. Technological development has accelerated with this deeper understanding. And during all stages of human development, our minds have continued to reflect on life around us and upon ourselves. We have continuously asked questions about our own existence and about our own minds. On this quest for understanding our minds, philosophers have now been joined by mathematicians, and psychologists, and economists, and cognitive scientists, and most recently, computer scientists. We not only want to understand minds, brains and intelligence, but also want to create minds, brains and intelligence. This quest goes broadly under the name of artificial intelligence. 1.1 Artificial Intelligence The field of artificial intelligence (Al) that we explore in this book came into being as soon as digital computers were built. But even before the electronic machine came into existence, Gottfried Leibniz (1646-1716) and Blaise Pascal (1623-1662) had explored the construction of mechanical calculating machines. Charles Babbage (1791-1871) had designed the first stored program machine. The ability of storing and manipulating symbols evoked the possibility of doing so intelligently and autonomously by the machine; and artificial intelligence became a lodestar for the pioneers of computing. The name artificial intellig