ion for each state: a set of variables, each of which has a value.
A problem is solved when each variable has a value that satisfies all the constraints on the
CONSTRAINT
variable. Aproblem described thiswayiscalleda constraintsatisfaction problem,or CSP.
SATISFACTION
PROBLEM
CS Psearchalgorithmstakeadvantageofthestructureofstatesandusegeneral-purpose
ratherthanproblem-specific heuristicstoenablethesolutionofcomplexproblems. Themain
ideaistoeliminatelargeportionsofthesearchspaceallatoncebyidentifyingvariable value
combinations thatviolatetheconstraints.
6.1 DEFINING CONSTRAINT SATISFACTION PROBLEMS
Aconstraint satisfaction problemconsists ofthreecomponents, X,D,and C:
X isasetofvariables, X ,...,X .
1 n
Disasetofdomains, D ,...,D ,oneforeachvariable.
1 n
C isasetofconstraints thatspecifyallowablecombinations ofvalues.
Each domain D consists of a set of allowable values, v ,...,v for variable X . Each
i 1 k i
constraint C consistsofapair(cid:16)scope,rel(cid:17),wherescope isatupleofvariablesthatparticipate
i
intheconstraintandrel isarelationthatdefinesthevaluesthatthosevariablescantakeon. A
relationcanberepresented asanexplicitlistofalltuples ofvaluesthatsatisfytheconstraint,
or as an abstract relation that supports two operations: testing if a tuple is a member of the
relation andenumerating themembersoftherelation. Forexample, if X and X bothhave
1 2
202
Section6.1. Defining Constraint Satisfaction Problems 203
the domain A,B , then the constraint saying the two variables must have different values
canbewrittenas(cid:16)(X ,X ), (A,B),(B,A) (cid:17) oras(cid:16)(X ,X ),X (cid:7) X (cid:17).
1 2 1 2 1 2
To solve a CSP, we need to define a state space and the notion of a solution. Each
state in a CSP is defined by an assignment of values to some or all of the variables, X ASSIGNMENT i
v ,X v ,... . Anassignment that does not violate anyconstraints iscalled aconsistent
CONSISTENT i j j
COMPLETE orlegalassignment. Acompleteassignmentisoneinwhicheveryvariable isassigne