n.wikipedia.org wiki Maya (illusion) for a detailed description. 19 Plot summary by Jake Gittes at http: www.imdb.comstitleAt0 133093 plotsummary State Space Search Chapter 2 Problem solving basically involves doing the right thing at the right time. Given a problem to solve the task is to select the right moves that would lead to the solution. Consider the situation in a football game you are playing. You are shown as player P in Figure 2.1 below. You have the ball with you and are running towards the opponent s goal. There are some other players in the vicinity also shown in the figure along with the directions of their movement. You have a problem to solve. What should you do next? What move should you make? What is the intelligent thing to do? FIGURE 2.1 A problem to solve on the football field. What should player P do next? GC is the opponent goalkeeper, Opp are opponents, and TM is teammate. Arrows show the direction of each player's movement. To solve such a problem on a computer, one must first create a representation of the domain; in this case, a football game being the problem, the decision to make next, the set of alternatives available, and the moves one can make. The above example is a problem in a multiagent scenario. There are many players and the outcome depends on their moves too. We will begin, in the initial chapters, with a much simpler scenario, in which there is only one player who can make changes in the situation. We will look at algorithms to analyse the complete problem and find a solution. In later chapters, we will explore ways to deal with multiagent scenarios as well. We will also use the term agent to refer to the problem solver. The problem solver, or the agent, operates on a representation of the space in which the problem has to be solved and also a representation of the moves or decisions that the agent has to choose from to solve the problem. Our endeavour will be to write the algorithms in a domain-independent manner. Then the a