op. The strategy illustrated would seem in general to be a good one: divide and conquer. When a set of beliefs has accumulated to the point of contradiction, find the smallest selection of them you can that still involves contradiction; for instance, (1) through (4). For we can be sure that we are going to have to drop some of the beliefs in that subset, whatever else we do. In reviewing and comparing the evidence for the beliefs in the subset, then, we will find ourselves led down in a rather systematic way to other beliefs of the set. Eventually we find ourselves dropping some of them too. In probing the evidence, where do we stop? In probing the evidence for (1) through (4) we dredged up various underlying beliefs, but we could have probed further, seeking evidence in turn for them. In practice, the probing stops when we are satisfied how best to restore consistency: which ones to discard among the beliefs we have canvassed. This story illustrates some of the problems posed by uncertain, fuzzy, and often changing knowledge. A variety of logical frameworks and computational methods have been proposed for handling such problems. In this chapter and the next, we discuss two approaches: * Nonmonotonic reasoning, in which the axioms and/or the rules of inference are extended to make it possible to reason with incomplete information. These systems preserve, however, the property that, at any given moment, a statement is either believed to be true, believed to be false, or not believed to be either. Statistical reasoning, in which the representation is extended to allow some kind of numeric measure of certainty (rather than simply TRUE or FALSE) to be associated with each statement. Other approaches to these issues have also been proposed and used in systems. For example, it is sometimes the case that there is not a single knowledge base that captures the beliefs of all the agents involved in solving a problem. This would happen in our murder scenario if we were to atte