sks whatisthesquare root of1764 and Bobreplies I don t know. If Alice insists think harder, Bob should realize that with some more thought, this question can in fact
be answered. On the other hand, if the question were Is your mother sitting down right
now? then Bob should realize that thinking harder is unlikely to help. Knowledge about
the knowledge of other agents is also important; Bob should realize that his mother knows
whethersheissittingornot,andthataskingherwouldbeawaytofindout.
What we need is a model of the mental objects that are in someone s head (or some-
thing s knowledge base) and of the mental processes that manipulate those mental objects.
The model does not have to be detailed. We do not have to be able to predict how many
milliseconds itwilltake foraparticular agent tomakeadeduction. Wewillbehappy justto
beabletoconclude thatmotherknowswhetherornotsheissitting.
PROPOSITIONAL We begin with the propositional attitudes that an agent can have toward mental ob-
ATTITUDE
jects: attitudes such as Believes, Knows, Wants, Intends, and Informs. The difficulty is
that these attitudes do not behave like normal predicates. Forexample, suppose we try to
assertthat Loisknowsthat Supermancanfly:
Knows(Lois,Can Fly(Superman)).
Oneminorissuewiththisisthatwenormallythinkof Can Fly(Superman)asasentence,but
hereitappearsasaterm. Thatissuecanbepatchedupjustbereifying Can Fly(Superman);
making it a fluent. A more serious problem isthat, ifit is true that Superman is Clark Kent,
thenwemustconcludethat Loisknowsthat Clarkcanfly:
(Superman Clark) Knows(Lois,Can Fly(Superman)) Knows(Lois,Can Fly(Clark)).
This is a consequence of the fact that equality reasoning is built into logic. Normally that is
agood thing; ifouragent knowsthat 2 2 4and4 5, then wewantouragent toknow
Section12.4. Mental Eventsand Mental Objects 451
REFERENTIAL that 2 2 5. This property is called referential transparency it doesn t matter what
TRANSPARENCY
termalogicusestorefertoanobject,whatmattersisth