ncentration of some of its elements dies down while those of others increase. Since the elements of the network interact with each other a dynamic steady state is achieved. The case study discussed later in this chapter throws more light into the actual workable system. 486 Artificial Intelligence anes Epitopes ma " Paratope ae WAS he SN _ Idiotope % SES so ba) be exe Stimulation ==> Suppression Fig. 24.7 An Immune Network based on Jerne's hypothesis 24.10 MAPPING IMMUNE SYSTEMS TO PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS Though the Artificial Immune System looks more like a predator-prey model or a simple pattern recognition problem, deeper insights reveal that the paradigm can be extended and used to suit a large variety of applications ranging from computer security, autonomous navigation and control, search and optimization, agent-based system design, scheduling and even data analysis and mining, Though a thorough discussion of each and every area is beyond the scope of this book, we present here a few of the more prominent ones. Before this we try to evolve the computational equivalents or metaphors of the various processes in an immune system. 24.10.41 Modelling Affinities Mimicking the immune system and translating it to suit the computational world requires some ingenuity. For instance, while dealing with a pattern recognition problem, how do we model the affinity between the antibody s paratopes and the antigen s epitopes ? The epitope-paratope pair forms extensive regions that are complementary in nature. In the computational world this could be measured by finding the distance between each of these surfaces or shapes, Thus, if we have an antibody whose shape could be defined using N number of parameters (these could be the height, depth, length, width of the bump or a groove that makes the receptors) then the set of all such N-dimensional points makes up for what is termed as a Shape Space. A point in this shape space defines the shape of the antibody receptor which in tur