s for four and eight neighborhood pixels are as follows: 1142 3/32 1/321 1/8 I 3/32 j 3/32 1/8 . 1/2 1/8 [1/32 3/32 l/32J 1/8 The underlined number in each array identifies the pixel being smoothed. (Note that the filter weights in a mask should sum to one to avoid distortions.) Applying a. mask to an image array has the effect of reducing spurious noise as well as sharp boundaries. It reduces sharp spikes but also tends to blur the image. For example, when the eight mask filter given above is applied to the array shown in Figure 14.7, the blurring effects are quite pronounced. The degree of smoothing and hence blurring can, of course, be controlled with the use of appropriate weighting values in the mask. Weighted smoothing of this type over a region is known as convolution. Convolution is sometimes used to smooth an image prior to the application of differential operators which detect edges. We return to the subject of convolution smoothing after we look at the edge detection problem. Local edge detection is the process of finding a boundary or delimiter between two regions. An edge will show up as a relatively thin line or are which appears as a measurable difference in Contrast between two otherwise homogeneous regions. Origna I image array Smoothed image array (a) (b) Figure 14.7 Application of a smoothing mask.1 2Courtesy of Kenneth Chapman and INTELLEDEX, INC. V Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 294 Regions belonging to the same object are usually distinguishable by one or more features which are relatively homogeneous throughout, such as color, texture, threedimensional how effects, or intensity. Boundaries which separate adjoining regions represent a disco'ntifl Uit Y in one or more of these features, a fact that can be exploited by measuring the rate of change of a feature value over the image surface. For example, the rate of change and vertical directions can be measured tal or gradient in intensity in the horizon with difference functions D, and D def