 systems are thus most suited for areas where a mathematical model is not available or the problem is difficult to model or realize, Furthermore these systems have to be tuned and re-tuned by changing the input and output profiles, 456 Artificial Intelligence a e T rules and the defuzzification procedures. This may require several iterations, at times involving the development of the real working prototype in the loop. Also note that while the input control variables are continuous in nature, the system can take into account high ambient noise. Imagine a case when the temperature oscillates frequently between two values belonging to two adjacent fuzzy regions. Since the centroid would shift only marginally, the change in the flow rate would remain smooth unlike that in conventional discrete systems wherein oscillations could lead to instability. EXERCISES etna, REDS MRA, SEASON INS Se BRR OO at ESIC ch BRE REBELDE IAT BEL a ARRPRN BBG? 25 Kb OME ELG L. 2. AES acon 0 EMRE ROE LOT Now that a fuzzy cooler is in place, design a simple fuzzy washing machine that can decide the speed of its motor based on the dirt level, type and the weight of the cloth. Visit the library of your institution, this time, for a different purpose. Inspect what kind of books are placed in each rack. Write a fuzzy logic program that can suggest the rack into which a new arrival (book) can go. Based on the fuzzy cooler, model the exposure time of a typical camera. Assume the camera has sensors to detect ambient light, controls for flash and picture type (landscape, close, etc.) settings. Also assume that exposure times are based on values reported by these sensors. Check the fuzzy model for parking a truck described in the site: http://www.iit.ntc.ca/IR_public/fuzzy/Fuzzy Truck. htm) Observe that the rules have been portrayed as a matrix commonly referred to as a Fuzzy Associative Memory (FAM). Try placing the truck at different orientations at the corners and trace its path. In case it is unsu