d be meaningful as indices. How are structures indexed by meaning, and how are they organized in mel11or for retrieval? One straightforward and popular approach uses associative networks (see Chapter 7) similar to the structures illustrated in Figure 11.1. Nodes within the network correspond to different knowledge entities, whereas the links are indices or pointers to the entities. Links connecting two entities name the association or relationship between them. The relationship between entities may be defined as a hierarchical one or just through associative links As an example of an indexed network, the concept of computer science ICS should be accessible directly through the CS name or indirectly through associative links like a university major, a career field, or a type of classroom course. These notions are illustrated in Figure 11.5. Object attributes can also serve as indices to locate items or categories based on the attribute values. In this case, the best attribute keys are those which provide the greatest discrimination among objects within the same category. For example, suppose we wish to organize knowledge by object types. In this case, the choice of attributes should depend on the use intended for the knowledge. Since objects Sec. 11.3 Integrating Knowledge in Memory 219 Figure 11.5 Associative network indexing and organuzailon. may be classified with an unlimited number of attributes (color. size, shape, markings. and so on). those attributes which are most discriminable with respect to the concet meaning should be chosen. Alternatively, object features with the most predictive power make the best indices. A good index for bird types is one based on individual differences like feet. size, beak shape, sounds emitted, special markings, and so forth. Attribute values possessed by all objects are useful for forming categories but poor for identifying an object within the category. Truly intelligent methods of indexing will be content associative and usua