set of sentences in a language is a domain and an interpretation such that all the sentences are true in that domain under the interpretation (see Chapter 12). The interpretation of a predicate is a relation of appropriate arity in the domain. From this perspective, one can see that the closed world assumption aims to find minimal models, in which the extent of all atomic predicates is as small as can be given the knowledge base. In the above example, this means that only those pairs who have been asserted as friends are in fact friends. One could find models in which other sentences are true, for example in some model, Subun and Vinayak could be friends. But CWA ignores that model and selects a model in which the extent of the Friend relation is minimum. However, as is often the case in computing with the disjunction operator, there can be some difficulties. Consider the following knowledge base. KBp (Friend(aditi, shubhgata) v Friend(aditi, jennifer)) Now, KBj Friend(aditi, shubhgata) v Friend(aditi, jennifer), -Friend(aditi, shubhgata), Friend(aditi, jennifer) However, the extended knowledge base is inconsistent. This is because the procedure to add negative atomic sentences adds both the sentences, since it is unable to infer that either is true. One can get around this problem by making a Generalized Closed World Assumption (GCWA) in which an atomic formula that participates in a disjunction can be negated, only if the other literals in the disjunction are entailed by the knowledge base. The extended knowledge base KB under GCWA is defined as, KB KB U -P Pisa ground atomic formula and, if KB F (Pv Q, Vv Q) ...V Qn) then KB F (OQ, v Q, ...v Q,) Given the new procedure we have, KB, (Friend(aditi, shubhgata)vFriend(aditi, jennifer)) and one is (correctly) unable to make a prediction about individual friendships. But if we had the fact (Friend(aditi, shubhgata) in KBj as well, then the extension would be different. That is given, KB' (Friend(aditi, shubhgata) v Fri