y (V44, V425 Vin) Ca (V24, V2; Van) where vj, is the value of the Kk" attribute of C;. We have already seen how the local similarity between the two values for each attribute can be computed. The task now is to define how the collection of local similarities between attributes of C; and Cz determine the global similarity of the two cases. Let the local similarities between the two cases be represented by (I4, la, ..., Ip). Then, we need to define an aggregation function to determine the global similarity sim(C4,C2)?, sim(C,, Cy) D(sim(v41, v21), SIM(Vyg, V22). -.-. SIM(Vy ys V2 )) ( ,, hb, ..., 4) The aggregation function determines how the similarities at the attribute level combine together to determine the overall similarity. Various aggregation functions can be defined. Keep in mind that the local similarity values are in the range 0,1 . We look at some possible definitions of . Average The most intuitive aggregation is to take the average value of the local similarities. This gives us the function, , average((sim(v11, V21), SiM(V17. V29). ---, SIM(V ys Voy) (sira(vyy, V21) sim, V22) . ..., SIMO 4 , Von) 77 Weighted Average The average aggregation function gives equal importance to all the attributes. In many problems, some attributes may be more important than others. A weighted average aggregation takes additional input in the form of a set of weights for the attributes that determines the relative importance of each attribute. Let the set of weights be W (wy, Wo, ..., Wp). Then, the weighted average aggregation function is, Dy (v7, sim(vy 1, Vaq) Wy SHV, 2, Vo) FT. 22 F Wy SHMV tye Von) DW; If the weights are normalized such that, (Wy Wot... wn) 1 then the weighted average aggregation becomes, Day Ov; sim(vy 1, V21) wy sim(Vy2, V22) . ..., WySIM(V1y, Vy) The weights determine the relative importance of each attribute. For example, consider a domain in which the cases represent cylindrical objects using the attributes that include, amongst others, height, diam