se) is computed as follows: P( Algorithms , y CS ) Pv, y CS") ( Algorithms in CS docs) 2 (Total words in CS docs) 7 P( Algorithms y CS ) 0.3 Similarly, P( Tree"ly "CS ) 5 . P( Graph y "CS ) e PCNP fy "CS") 5 P( Algorithms : Bio ) P( Tree" : Bio ) P( Gene" : Bio ) P( Assay" y Bio ) S P( Cell): Bio ) P( Life" : Bio ) P( Protein y Bio ) Here, we assumed that P(word label) is distributed according to multinomial distribution. For a new document Xnew containing the words (Algorithms, Tree), the class label is assigned based on the highest probability of belonging to the class. The probability can be calculated using the estimated prior and class-conditional probabilities of each word. PQ CS pox) 2 Ply CS T Pov CS ) cc Ply CS ) P( Algorithms y CS ) P( Tree y CS ) 4 8 oe ta2s 2 slp maf Similarly, oe . i Ply Bio"Pinew) 5 Now P(y "CS Powy CS Py CS"k,..) o TL Pony ) Pew) P(y CS ) J , Poy "CS ) PQ "CS") 7 , Poy "CS ) P(r Bio ) T ,, P Guy Bio ) 4 98 4 4 98 1 98 5 and P(y "Bio ) ,, PQuy Bio ) P(Xney) P(x "Bio ) ,, P(uy Bio ) PQV CS") 1, Poviy CS") P(r Bio ) T .,, Powe 1 98 16 1- 92, 4 98 1 98 5 PO Bio Spe) Bio ) Since P(y "CS Xnew) P(y "Bio Xnew), we assign the label CS to the new document. Example 2: Protein Sequence Classification Proteins are important biomolecules that participate in a majority of cellular functions in the living organism. They are made up of amino acids. There exist twenty different amino acids. For a computer scientist, proteins can be thought of as strings constructed from language, with an alphabet set of twenty amino acids. Proteins exist as a three dimensional structure in its physical form and the instructions for the same is believed to be coded in the sequence information. The structure in turn provides valuable information about protein function. Proteins are classified into various groups by biologists, based on their structure and function. Protein sequence can be obtained quickly once the genome sequence is known. On the contrary, obtaining prot