 Education, HandOn? . Given below is the history of how the hypothesis evolves after processing each named instance. Initial: O, D, D Adrian: Medium, PhD, Yes ? Agnar: Medium, PhD, Yes Ahneta: ?, ?, Yes Aimara: ?, ?, Yes Aithne: ?, ?, Yes The reader is advised to continue the process and verify that by now, the algorithm has converged to the hypothesis h ?, ?, Yes . This will match all those employees who answer Yes to the attribute HandOn?. This has already become too much of a generalization. The learned concept fh will misclassify some employees, for example Abdul and Akilina in Table 15.3. It will classify all employees with Very High value correctly, but also some that do not have the value VeryHigh. In the words of information retrieval community, the algorithm produces false positives. The reason why the algorithm is unable to learn the target concept is that the target concept does not exist in the hypotheses space H. The algorithm finds the most specific hypothesis in H that is consistent with the training data. In case there is more than one maximally specific hypotheses existing then the one found would depend upon the order in which the training instances are presented. In the next example, we look at an algorithm that returns all possible hypotheses that are consistent with the set of training examples, and which is not dependent on the order in which the instances appear. The algorithm also draws inferences from negative training examples to prune the set of hypotheses it is considering. While Find-S begins with the most specific hypothesis and uses positive instance to generalize the hypothesis just enough to include the instance, the algorithm Candidate-Elimination described below considers the entire space of hypotheses and eliminates those hypotheses that are not consistent with each training instance. The algorithm does not store the entire hypotheses space H, but considers a smaller set of hypotheses that form the boundary of a region in the spac