ed the opportunity to change your selection to the other shell. Should you? Work through the conditional probabilities mentioned in this problem using Bayes theorem. What do the results tell about what you should do 2. Using MYCIN s rules for inexact reasoning, compute CF, MB, and MD of h, given three observations where CF(hy, 0,) = 0.5 CF(hy, 02) = 0.3 CF(hy, 03) = 0.2 3. Show that MYCIN s combining rules satisfy the three properties we gave for them. 4. Consider the following set of propositions: patient has spots patient has measles Statistical Reasoning 187 ae REA patient has high fever patient has Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever patient has previously been innoculated against measles patient was recently bitten by a tick patient has an allergy (a) Create a network that defines the causal connections among these nodes. (b) Make it a Bayesian network by constructing the necessary conditional probability matrix. . Consider the same propositions again, and assume our task is to identify the patient s disease using Dempster-Shafer theory. {a) What is 6? (b) Define a set of m functions that describe the dependencies among sources of evidence and elements of @ (c) Suppose we have observed spots, fever, and a tick bite. In that case, what is our Bel({ Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever})? . Define fuzzy sets that can be used to represent the list of propositions that we gave at the beginning of Section 8.5. . Consider again the ABC Murder story from Chapter 7. In our discussion of it there, we focused on the use of symbolic techniques for representing and using uncertain knowledge. Let s now explore the use of numeric techniques to solve the same problem. For each part below, show how knowledge could be represented. Whenever possible, show how it can be combined to produce a prediction of who committed the murder given at least one possible configuration of the evidence. (a} Use MYCIN-style rutes and CF s. Example rules might include: If (1) relative (x,y), and {2) on speaking 