
anda50 chancethatitwillfallinany4C-wideregion,andsoon. Wewritetheprobability
densityforacontinuousrandomvariable X atvaluexas P(X x)orjust P(x);theintuitive
definition of P(x)istheprobability that X fallswithinanarbitrarily smallregion beginning
atx,dividedbythewidthoftheregion:
P(x) lim P(x X x dx) dx .
dx 0
For Noon Temp wehave
(cid:24)
1 if18C x 26C
P(Noon Temp x) Uniform (x) 8C , 18C,26C 0otherwise
where C stands forcentigrade (not for aconstant). In P(Noon Temp 20.18C) 1 , note
8C
that 1 is not a probability, it is a probability density. The probability that Noon Temp is
8C
exactly 20.18C is zero, because 20.18C is a region of width 0. Some authors use different
symbolsfordiscretedistributions anddensityfunctions; weuse P inbothcases,sinceconfu-
sionseldomarisesandtheequationsareusuallyidentical. Notethatprobabilities areunitless
numbers,whereasdensityfunctionsaremeasuredwithaunit,inthiscasereciprocaldegrees.
In addition to distributions on single variables, we need notation for distributions on
multiple variables. Commas are used for this. For example, P(Weather,Cavity) denotes
the probabilities of all combinations of the values of Weather and Cavity. This is a 4 2
JOINTPROBABILITY table of probabilities called the joint probability distribution of Weather and Cavity. We
DISTRIBUTION
can also mix variables with and without values; P(sunny,Cavity) would be a two-element
vector giving the probabilities of a sunny day with a cavity and a sunny day with no cavity.
The Pnotation makes certain expressions much moreconcise than they might otherwise be.
Forexample,theproduct rulesforallpossible valuesof Weather and Cavity canbewritten
asasingleequation:
P(Weather,Cavity) P(Weather Cavity)P(Cavity),
488 Chapter 13. Quantifying Uncertainty
insteadofasthese4 2 8equations (usingabbreviations W and C):
P(W sunny C true) P(W sunny C true)P(C true)
P(W rain C true) P(W rain C true)P(C true)
P(W cloudy C true) P(W cloudy C true)P(C true)
P(W snow C true) P(W snow C true)P(C 