does not mention the full description node datum, environments , justifications as in (de Kleer, 1986), where a justification is the immediate set of predecessors of the node in the dependency network. In this representation, the datum is the common consequent of all justifications. The informant has not been depicted, and can be assumed to be implicit in the justification. The following kinds of nodes can be distinguished. A node is a premise, if the inference engine has provided it with a justification with no antecedents. That is, a premise A may be represented as, premise A A, , () or in the simpler notation premise A A, An assumption A is a node that has itself in its environment? . assumption A A, A , (A) or assumption A A, A However, assumptions may also receive justifications, and if they do, then they are treated as other nodes and cannot be retracted as long as their justification is intact. For the sake of simplicity, we will consider only those assumptions that are unsupported by other nodes. Premises may also receive justifications, though they do not contribute to the belief system. If there are N distinct assumptions that one can make, then the ATMS may have to contend with 2" different environments. However, if a node holds in an environment E then it will also hold in an environment E that is a superset of E. The ATMS therefore stores only the minimal environments. Figure 17.21, adapted from (Forbus and de Kleer, 1992) shows a set of assumptions that are IN, a set of derived nodes, their justifications and their minimal environments. The small empty circles in the figure represent AND nodes. Node O has one justification with two nodes K and L. Node K itself can be derived in two ways, either from A or from B. Thus, node O would have two environments, A, B and B . However since the former is a superset of the latter, it is discarded. Likewise, node M holds in two environments, C, D and E . Both these contribute to node Q which consequently holds in t