 that can be associated with a certain class of objects. He broadened the class of images that could be analyzed by relaxing lighting conditions and extending the labeling vocabulary to accommodate shadows, some multiline junctions and other types of interior lines. His constraint satisfaction algorithm was one of his most important contributions. To see how this procedure works, consider the image drawing of a pyramid as illustrated in Figure 14.23. At the right side of the pyramid are all possible lahe!ings for the four junctions A, B. C, and D. Using these labels as mutual constraints on connected junctions, permissible labels for the whole pyriniid can be determined. The constraint satisfaction procedure works as follows: I. Starting at an arbitrary junction, say A. a record of all permissible labels is made for that junction. An adjacent junction is then chosen, say B. and labels which are inconsistent with the line AB are then eliminated from the permissible A and B lists. In this case, the line joining B can only he a + . -. or an up-arrow Junction Possible Labeliry S A A/N B AD C/ Figure 14.23 t'si'oh Ic I.thc Iin'. For in object Sec. 14.4 Describing and Labeling Objects 311 -. Consequently, two of the possible label ings can be eliminated with the remaining four being 2. Choosing junction C next, we find that the BC constraints are satisfied by all of the B and C lahelings; so no reduction is possible with this step. On the other hand, the line AC must be labeled as - or as an up-leftarrow - to be consj' :ent. Therefore, an additional label for A can be eliminated to reduce the remainder to the following. 3. This new restriction on A now permits the elimination of one B labeling to maintain consistency. Thus, the permissible B labelings remaining are now This reduction in turn, places a new restriction on BC, permitting the elimination of one C label. since BC must now he labeled as a -f only. This leaves the remaining C labels as 4. Moving now to Junction 