, the mating and crossover is done by random selection from fit members. In the natural world, this process is far from random. Selection of mates is a conscious process in which attraction between opposite sexes plays a major role. One could say that both the concept of beauty and also its perception have evolved to help members choose mates that will result in better offspring. In a way then, that is a process of selection that operates at a different level. Another factor that affects mating is geographic location. Living creatures usually find mates from a nearby area. The structures of society and the often complex processes of matchmaking too, play a role. Many a time these are designed to serve a community or a clan, rather than the individual. 4.4 The Travelling Salesman Problem The Travelling Salesman Problem (TSP) is one of the harder problems around, and considered by some to be the holy grail of computer science. The problem can informally be defined as follows. Given a graph in which the nodes are locations or cities, and edges are labelled with the cost of travelling between cities, to find a cycle containing each city exactly once, such that the total cost of the tour is as low as possible. Thus, the salesman must start from a city, visit each city exactly once, and return home incurring minimum cost. The cost may be distance, time, or money. Most studies of TSP assume a completely connected graph. While practical problems, like a country map, generate graphs that are not complete, one can make them complete by adding edges with a very high cost. Given N cities, a tour may be represented by the order in which the cities are represented, (City,, City ..., City,,) which is often abbreviated to (1, 2, ..., N). This is known as the path representation. One can observe that there are N! permutations possible with N cities, each representing a tour. Every tour can be represented by N of these permutations, where each is a rotation of another. For example, i