o aspects to intelligence. One is the ability to thinkY to reason, to plan, to try out different alternatives in search of a solution, to explore. This is akin to raw processing power. The other is having the data to apply the processing power to. That is knowledge about the world, about goals, about plans, and the possibilities that need to be explored. The algorithms needed for reasoning are also knowledge of a particular kind, about how to do things. The thesis we have built up through the course of this book is that knowledge is the key to intelligent behaviour. The question then is where does this knowledge come from? One very seductive answer is machine learning combined with text processing. There has been a considerable amount of work going on in the area. Systems like Watson at IBM have collected humungous amounts of information from the Web. Others like Wolfram Alfa have taken the approach of having hundreds of people with specialized knowledge put their knowledge into computer systems. Tom Mitchell at CMU wants to build a machine that will read documents from the Web. There is much to be done in the field of artificial intelligence. Every now and then some area shows some promise and people jump into it with a great fervour. Intelligence is multifaceted and multidimensional in nature. It cannot be produced by painting with a single brush. Humans have evolved into being specialists, each garnering vast amounts of knowledge in her field of excellence. An artist wields her brush to produce the visual effect and a pianist pounds upon the keys of a piano to produce a musical extravaganza. An architect can see how her design would result in a comfortable dwelling, and a chef knows what adding that exotic spice will do to the dish. Each of them is equipped with tremendous amounts of knowledge. Where does this large amount of knowledge come from? The lazy answer is machine learning. In practice, one may need to encode much of such knowledge manually. This was att