
graph coloring (ofwhich mapcoloring isaspecial case) is anold problem in mathematics.
GRAPHCOLORING
Thefour-color conjecture (that every planar graph can be colored with fourorfewercolors)
was first made by Francis Guthrie, a student of De Morgan, in 1852. It resisted solution despite several published claims to the contrary until a proof was devised by Appel and
Haken (1977) (see the book Four Colors Suffice (Wilson, 2004)). Purists were disappointed
that part of the proof relied on a computer, so Georges Gonthier (2008), using the COQ
theorem prover,derivedaformalproofthat Appeland Haken sproofwascorrect.
Specific classes of constraint satisfaction problems occur throughout the history of
computer science. One of the most influential early examples was the SKETCHPAD sys-
228 Chapter 6. Constraint Satisfaction Problems
tem (Sutherland, 1963), which solved geometric constraints in diagrams and was the fore-
runnerofmoderndrawingprogramsand CA Dtools. Theidentification of CS Psasageneral
class is due to Ugo Montanari (1974). The reduction of higher-order CS Psto purely binary
CS Pswithauxiliaryvariables(see Exercise6.6)isdueoriginallytothe19th-centurylogician
Charles Sanders Peirce. It was introduced into the CSP literature by Dechter (1990b) and
waselaboratedby Bacchusandvan Beek(1998). CS Pswithpreferencesamongsolutionsare
studied widely in the optimization literature; see Bistarelli et al. (1997) for a generalization
of the CS Pframework to allow forpreferences. The bucket-elimination algorithm (Dechter,
1999)canalsobeapplied tooptimization problems.
Constraint propagation methods were popularized by Waltz s (1975) success on poly-
hedral line-labeling problems for computer vision. Waltz showed that, in many problems,
propagation completely eliminates the need for backtracking. Montanari (1974) introduced
the notion of constraint networks and propagation by path consistency. Alan Mackworth
(1977)proposedthe AC-3algorithmforenforcingarcconsistencyaswellasthegenera