the joint probability of X and Y is simply the product of their marginal properties. An interesting feature of BBNs is that many such conditional relations can be seen from the graphical point of view. This is based on the notion of separating the two (sets of) nodes by the nodes on which they are conditioned. This property is known as d-separation, where the d stands for directed (Pearl, 1988). In general, one is interested in knowing whether a node X is influenced by node Y, when the path between the two nodes passed through the node Z. We consider three cases corresponding to the three possible configurations of the arrow directions between the three nodes (see also (Bishop, 2006)). Case 1 When both X and Y are children of Z in the graph depicting the Bayesian belief network. This implies that both X and Y are causally influenced by Z. An example of such a relation is where Z is the age of a child, X is her height and Y is her reading ability (from (Pearl, 1988)). In the graph, this will be depicted as shown if Figure 17.28a. If we do not know the age of the child then we can relate her height to her reading ability. This is indicated in the graph from the fact that there is a path from the node height (X) to the node reading ability (Y). But once we know the value of Z, that is the age of the child, the other two variables height and reading ability become independent of each other. We say that once the node Z is known, it blocks the path from X to Y. In general, if there had been more paths between X and Y then all such paths would have to be blocked to achieve conditional independence between X and Y. Let us say that the set of nodes Z;,..., Zg in the graph blocked all paths between X and Y, then we would say, (X, Z;,..., Zh; Y . Case 2 When Z is a child of X in the graph and Y is a child of Z. Here X could be the result of a match which causally influences the mood of the father which in turn decides whether he would agree to order his daughter s favourite fo