ns, 1986) that explained the death of a successful and healthy race horse called Swale by matching the episodes with another story (case) where a spouse kills spouse for life insurance , substituting the spouses with the owner and the horse. Another program that deployed a MOP-based memory was the program called CYRUS written by Janet Kolodner (1984) that kept track of the travels of the diplomat Cyrus Vance. Faced with the query Did you ever meet Mrs. Begin? Cyrus generates a question When would meet the spouse of a diplomat? and searches into its memory for instances of having gone for diplomatic visits to Israel. Another program that exploited the integrated nature of the MOP was DMAP (Direct Memory Access Parsing) by Charles Martin (Riesbeck and Martin, 1985), (Martin, 1989), which worked on the assumption that the principal task in parsing language was finding the relevant memory structures. In fact, Martin says that the output of a case based parser is a new state of memory . Figure 14.14 below, adapted from (Lehnert, 1987), shows a part of the memory that is activated when the sentence Milton Friedman says interest rates will rise. MTRANS-event a ry s Actor H 4 Economie Opinion Mental Object ry 7 i 1 Prediction Human - Economic 7 a Economic Prediction Argument ' ; we Fa State : : a Change Economist Friedman's Interest Economic 4 ry Rates Prediction Prediction ' Says: 6 . Milton Friedman . Time Economic Interest Rates State Change A Prediction 3 Future Lt Milton Friedman's Name will Interest Behaviour NX. Rates Up ry Interest he a Milton Friedman Rates ; Up Milton Friedman interest rates FIGURE 14.14 An illustration of MOP activation by DMAP (figure adapted from (Lehnert,1987)). DMAP and also the parser by Waltz and Pollack mentioned earlier, views the memory as a vast integrated network incorporating different kinds of knowledge, and views parsing as a process of activation, and change, of this memory. Every sentence that the listener hears leaves the memory 