Within Bounds (BWB) test is used as the termination criteria. The ball in question is a hypothetical surface defined by the retrieval criterion and the constructed retrieval set. For threshold based retrieval, it is defined by the threshold distance, or similarity. For KNN retrieval, it is defined by the similarity of the Kt" case in the retrieval set. The surface of the ball thus defined are points of equal distance (or similarity) from the query point. When we use Euclidean distance, as in the example below, the ball is a hypersphere in N-dimensional space. In two-dimensional space, as in the example, it is a circle. If one had used Manhattan distance, the circle would have been replaced by a rhombus. In Ndimensional space, the surface would be a hyper-rhombus. The bounds are defined by the region in the space that has already been inspected. Thus, if the ball lies within the bounds of the region that has been inspected, it means that all cases in other regions are outside of the ball, and therefore will not meet the retrieval criteria. Remember, that cases outside the ball have lower similarity than the cases within the ball. If the BWB test returns true, the retrieval algorithm can terminate. If the BWB test returns false then there is some part of the ball that lies in a region not yet explored. A better case could be lurking out there in that neighbouring region. The retrieval algorithm then backtracks up the tree one level and considers the other child. Should it go down that branch and visit the bucket(s) there? The answer is provided by the Ball Overlaps Bounds test. The BOB Test The Ball Overlaps Bounds test returns true if the ball overlaps the unexplored region in question. If the answer is true, then a more similar case might exist in the unexplored region. This is because the surface (boundary) of the ball marks the region of interest. For KNN retrieval, it marks the similarity, or distance, of the Kh case in the retrieval set. Any case at a lower dist