nother example of a durative action is when one drives a car from point A to point B. The action needs the following conditions at the start the agent should be at point A, a car should be available, and the amount of petrol in the car should be greater than a certain amount which is a function of the distance and the rate of consumption. The overall condition is that the agent should be in the car and driving it, and the atend condition is that there should be parking space at point B. The atstart effect is that the agent is not at point A, nor is the car, and that the agent is in the car and driving it. The at-end effect is that both the agent and the car are at point B. The reader is encouraged to express the above action in PDDL2.1. At-end conditions in durative actions imply that an action that a planner considers, because the at-start conditions are met, may in fact not be feasible if its at-end conditions are not met. This implies that a search algorithm has to take care of withdrawing the at-start effects, and their consequences if any, if an action becomes infeasible due to unsatisfied end conditions. Looking at the role of ghee in garnishing a chapati, we can introduce a new action SpreadGhee which will spread the ghee on the chapati being cooked. The ghee must be spread before the Chapati action ends and the spreading action must not end before the the cooking action ends. Given that the duration of SpreadGhee is about half a minute, we can see that we are trying to express the following constraint between the two actions 9, oi(SpreadGhee, Chapati) That is, SpreadGhee must be overlapped by Chapati. The SpreadGhee operator can be defined as follows, (:durative action spreadGhee tparameters (?c - chapatiDough ?s - stove ?g -ghee) :duration ( ?duration 0.5) :conditicn (and (at start (ccoking-on ?c ?s)) (at start (available ?g)) (at end (cooked ?c)) :effect (at start (applied ghee) ) ) This action has the at-start condition that the chapati must be cooking on