 (wearingboots \/ summer) (wearingboots \/ wearingsandals) . Create a separate clause corresponding to each conjunct. In order for a wff to be true, all the clauses that are generated from it must be true. If we are going to be working with several wff s, all the clauses generated by each of them can now be combined to represent the same set of facts as were represented by the original wff s. . Standardize apart the variables in the set of clauses generated in step 8. By this we mean rename the variables so that no two clauses make reference to the same variable. In making this transformation, we rely on the fact that 112 Artificial Intelligence SCOT AHERN (Wx: P(x) A Q(x) = Vx: PQ) A Vx: QC) Thus since each clause is a separate conjunct and since all the variables are universally quantified, there need be no relationship between the variables of two clauses, even if they were generated from the same wff. Performing this final step of standardization is important because during the resolution procedure it is sometimes necessary to instantiate a universally quantified variable (i.e., substitute for it a particular value). But, in general, we want to keep clauses in their most general form as long as possible. So when a variable is instantiated, we want to know the minimum number of substitutions that must be made to preserve the truth value of the system. After applying this entire procedure to a set of wff s, we will have a set of clauses, each of which is a disjunction of literals. These clauses can now be exploited by the resolution procedure to generate proofs. 5.4.2 The Basis of Resolution The resolution procedure is a simple iterative process: at each step, two clauses, called the parent clauses, are compared (resolved), yielding a new clause that has been inferred from them. The new clause represents ways that the two parent clauses interact with each other. Suppose that there are two clauses in the system: winter \/ summer awinter \/ cold Recall that this mea