cewise to determine whether one of them subsumes the other. Let the two descriptions in normalized form be, ra AND dy dp ... dy and super AND P4 Po.- - Px The interpretation of the AND operator is that it denotes the intersection of the sets denoted by its arguments. The concept dy, is subsumed by the concept dgyper when the corresponding set M(dsyp) is a subset of the set I(dguper). Now if each component p; Of dsuper has a corresponding component d; in d,,,such that I(d7) Mp), then the intersection of all these subsets will be a subset of the intersection of the components Of duper, that is Asuper itself. Let every component p; of super have a corresponding component dig in dsyp. Note that it is possible that dy d;, that is the same component may be subsumed by different components of duper. Let (dsubsumed) be the intersection of all the sets (d4:), Id), ..., (dp). That is, dsupsumed iS AND a4: d ... d, . Clearly then, (subsumed) S Kdsuper) Further, since ds, may have more components not included in subsumed: Kdsup) S (subsumed) Hence, Kdsup) S Kdsuper) The relation between these subsets is illustrated in Figure 14.25. FIGURE 14.25 Piecewise subsumption. Component p; subsumes ad, and component po subsumes d2. The concept Asuper AND p; p2 is the shaded region. The concept dsp AND dj dz d3 d4 is the region with the chessboard pattern. The concept Asupsumea AND a; dy is the region with the grid pattern. When the task is to show that (dsyp super), the structure matching algorithm looks for a corresponding subsumed element qd in dp, for every component p; in duper. The subsumed elements for each type of concept are as follows. If pjis an atomic concept, then it is necessary that dj p; If pj EXISTS n 4, then it is necessary that d; EXISTS m A, where m 2 n.In the special case where n 1, it is also allowed that d; FILLS rc for any constant c If pj ALL r e then it is necessary that d; ALL r e where recursively ee If pj FILLS rc then d; FILLS rc If the algorithm can find cor