no algebraic implication (the slash and + signs do not have any meaning). Accordingly, Old = 0.1/21 + 0.3/30 + 0.35/35 + 0.4/40 + 0.6/45 + 0.8/60 + 1/70 Fuzzy Set Operations Union: The membership function of the union of two fuzzy sets A and B is defined as the maximum of the two individual membership functions. It is equivalent to the Boolean OR operation. Ha VU p = Max(t14, Hy) Intersection: The membership function of the intersection of two fuzzy sets A and B is defined as the minimum of the two individual membership functions and is equivalent to the Boolean AND operation. Ha Og = Mmin( YW 4, Hp) Cotnplement: The membership function of the complement of a fuzzy set A is defined as the negation of the specified membership function: yz . This is equivalent to the Boolean NOT operation Hg =Ha V p= (1 - Ha) It may be further noted here that the laws of Associativity, Commutativity , Distributivity and De Morgan's faws hold in fuzzy set theory too. 22.5 FUZZY LOGIC CONTROL The theory of a fuzzy logic based system could remain fuzzy till one discovers how to apply it to a problem. Fuzzy logic has been used in a broad spectrum of applications ranging from domestic appliances like washing machines and cameras, to more sophisticated ones that include turbine control, tracking, data classifiers, etc. Fuzzy logic by itself does not exhibit intelligence. Invariably systems that use fuzzy logic are augmented with techniques that facilitate learning and adaptation to the environment in question, 448 Artificial Intelligence We discuss a traditional problem of controlling the speed of a motor based on two parameters temperature and humidity. Such a model fits snug into room coolers that use a tank of water and a fan to increase humidity to bring down temperature. Coolers like these are widely used in tropical high temperature and dry environments. The same could be extended for a wide range of applications. The following description explains how fuzzy logic works and how we mod