or justification at this time. Two other knowledge terms which we shall occasionally use are epistemology 12 -: Knowledge: General Concepts Chap. 2 and metaknowledge. Epistemology is the study of the nature of knowledge, whereas me,aknowldge is knowledge about knowledge, that is, knowledge about what we know. In this section we have tried to give a broader definition of knowledge than that commonly found indictionaries. Clearly, we have not offered a scientific definition, nor will we in this text. That will have to wait. But, without a scientific definition, we are not able to measure knowledge. How then will we know when a system has enough knowledge to perform a specified task? Can we expect to build intelligent systems without having a more precise definition of either knowledge or intelligence' In spite of our igndrance about knowledge, the answer is definitely yes. We can and have built intelligent systems as we shall see in the following chapters. As it happened, in 1950 Turing proposed a way to demonstrate if a machine can think and, therefore, exhibit intelligence. Known as the Turing test, it involves isolating a person in a room with only a computer telctyp. If the person cannot distinguish between a roan imitating a woman and a computer imitating a man imitating a woman on the teletype. the computer succeeded in passing the test. (Turing's test is often mistakenly understood to be simply a test of whether or not a person can distinguish between some other hidden person and a computer Impersonating a person.) To date no one has developed a system able to pass the Turing test. Of course, it. may be that no one has tried. Even so, systems need not pass such a test to he useful, and many systems have already been built that exhibit a high level of intelligence. Finally, our overall picture of knowledge Cannot be complete without also knowing the meaning of closely relaed concepts such as understanding. learning. thinking. remembering, and reasoning. These co