t the simple grammar for E overgenerates, producing nonsen-
0
tencessuchas Mesmellastench. Toavoidthisproblem,ourgrammarwouldhavetoknow
that me isnotavalid NP whenitisthesubjectofasentence. Linguistssaythatthepronoun I is in the subjective case, and me is in the objective case.4 We can account for this by
4 Thesubjectivecaseisalsosometimescalledthenominativecaseandtheobjectivecaseissometimescalled
theaccusativecase.Manylanguagesalsohaveadativecaseforwordsintheindirectobjectposition.
900 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
splitting NP intotwocategories, NP and NP ,tostand fornounphrases inthesubjective
S O
and objective case, respectively. Wewould also need to split the category Pronoun into the
two categories Pronoun (which includes I ) and Pronoun (which includes me ). The
S O
toppartof Figure23.7showsthegrammarforcaseagreement;wecalltheresultinglanguage
CASEAGREEMENT
E . Noticethatallthe NP rulesmustbeduplicated, oncefor NP andoncefor NP .
1 S O
SUBJECT VERB Unfortunately, E still overgenerates. English requires subject verb agreement for
AGREEMENT 1
person and number of the subject and main verb of a sentence. For example, if I is the
subject, then I smell isgrammatical, but I smells isnot. If it isthe subject, weget the
reverse. In English, the agreement distinctions are minimal: most verbs have one form for
third-person singular subjects (he, she, or it), and a second form for all other combinations
ofperson and number. Thereisoneexception: the verb tobe hasthree forms, I am you
are he is. So one distinction (case) splits NP two ways, another distinction (person and
number)splits NP threeways,andasweuncoverotherdistinctionswewouldendupwithan
exponential numberofsubscripted NP formsifwetooktheapproach of E . Augmentations
1
areabetterapproach: theycanrepresent anexponential numberofformsasasinglerule.
In the bottom of Figure 23.7 wesee (part of) an augmented grammarfor the language
E , which handles case agreement, subject verb agreement, and head wor