 addition to this vertical semiotic system, i.e. genetic communication down through the generations, all organisms also partake in a horizontal semiotic system, i.e. communication throughout the ecological space. Every organism is born into a world of significance. Whatever an organism senses also mean something to it, food, escape, sexual reproduction, etc. This is one of the major insights brought to light through the pioneering work of Jakob von Uexkiill: Every action, therefore, that consists of perception and operation imprints its meaning on the meaningless object and thereby makes it into a subject-related meaningcarrier in the respective Umwelt (subjective universe) (Uexkiull, 1982). One can then imagine all activity in terms of hierarchically composed semiotic systems, in which smaller parts come together (by themselves, through a long process of experimentation of recombination and selection) to form bigger and bigger entities that are more complex than the parts that make them up. The swarms like those of bees and ants may be made up of components that are similar, as are human organizations. It must be observed though that even when similar members organize themselves into larger entities, they take up different roles. A typical corporate house, for example, will have CEOs, directors, managers, engineers, technicians, drivers, typists, cleaners, accountants and even lawyers. So they are similar as human beings, but functionally very different. In the same manner, we can think of our own body as made up of functionally different parts, which have some basic level of similarity, in that they all contain the same genetic code. One must keep in mind though that this analogy is a very loose one since bodies and industrial houses differ in many other ways. The point is that maybe one can loosen the strong sense of focused self that we all have and try and visualise the creation of life forms as something that arises out of a bottom up process as described by H