etwork (see Chapter 4). In such a network, nodes can be in different levels of activation, and the activation value of a node influences the activation value of its neighbours via the edges. The influence can be excitatory or inhibitory. Observe that the edge now represents whether the two nodes at its ends support each other or oppose each other. Given an initial excitation of some nodes, the system is allowed to relax by propagating influences across edges, till it settles down into a steady state. The set of excited nodes can then be seen to describe the state of affairs. The network in Figure 14.10 is the kind of network proposed by David Waltz and Jordan Pollack to combine the syntactic and semantic relations associated with a string of words (Waltz and Pollack, 1985). The figure shows a part of the network that would be associated with the celebrated sentence Time flies like an arrow (Kuno and Oettinger, 1962). The words in the boxes represent the input sentence that one needs to understand, and the different arcs link the words to syntactic or semantic categories. As one can see, the sentence is ambiguous. The word time for example, could be an adjective, a verb, or a noun. When time is a verb or an adjective, flies is a noun, but when time is a noun flies is a verb. These different possible relations are expressed by the excitatory and inhibitory links between the nodes. Noun phrase a , Conjunction Noun vers 7 Adjective Preposition 4 7 Verb i Noun 7 f- fy f A ) Inn ran Noun ( 7 LY mo fe flies an arow : Time an-arrow Time-flies nN A LN timing Agent. Agent-of-aming Object-of-liking Object-of-flying FIGURE 14.10 Combining syntax and semantics into a connectionist network. A part of the network for the sentence Time flies like an arrow. is shown above. The nodes above the words are part of syntax and the nodes below define the semantics. Edges with arrowheads represent excitatory links and edges with rounded ends represent inhibitory links. To get a particular i