 the resolution refutation setting. remises yield the following clauses, lan Socrates) (Man ?x)) V (Mortal ?x) egated goal is 3 yMortal(y) which is the same as Vx Mortal(y), which gives us the clause (7 (Mc ct the answer to the query we can add an answer predicate to the goal. We revise the goal t )) A Answer(y)). We also need to modify the termination criteria from the null clause to include the e answer clause. The resulting negated clause is, Mortal ?y)) V ( (Answer ?y)) the Answer predicate will not play any role in the proof finding process we can discard the negation ret it as the value of the answer variable. (Mortal ?y)) V (Answer ?y) he same resolution method is used till we are left with an answer clause. Mortal Socrates) 1, 2, ?x Socrates inswer Socrates) 3,4, ?y Socrates nus we have the answer as Socrates. s try it with the problem of determining if there is a green block on the table we had solved earlier. e is no determinate answer. We have modified the goal clause in the following to include the (Ontable A) premise (Ontable B) premise (Green A) V (Green B) premise (7 (Ontable ?x)) V ( (Green ?x)) V (Answer ?x) negated ( (Green A)) V (Answer A) 1,4, 2x . (Green B) V (Answer A) 3,5 (7 (Ontable B)) V (Answer B) V (Answer A) 4, 6, ?x (Answer B) V (Answer.A) 2,7 Igorithm correctly terminates with the answer that it is either block A or block B. . are some situations however when resolution method may not extract the answer because it can fir ive proof. Let us look at a small example to illustrate this. ction is involveakziwithtunvearthing hidden information in a set of facts. It is a valuable tool in the ars who has to solve a crime . Let us apply deduction to yet another fictitious crime mystery. 1 are as follows, VwV xVyVz ((Loc(w, x, y) (x Z)) DS (Loc(w, Z, y) 1 (Mumbai Chennai) -(Chennai Mumbai) yoal is 3x (Culprit(x) along with the answer predicate. We first convert the premises into clat notations as before, and then add the negated goal along with t