, ordinary first order proof methods can be used to prove statements such as OWNS( ji11, ford). For example, to obtain a refutation proof using resolution, we put the completion and inequality formulas 5.2 and 5.3 in clausal form respectively, negate the query OWNS(jill.ford) and add it to the KB. Thus, resolving with the following clauses 1. TWNS(x,tord) V EQUAUx.joe) 2. TUAUa,joe) 3. OWNS(ji II,ford) from I and 3 we obtain 4. EQUAL( ji II,joe) and from 2 and 4 (recall that a is any constant not = Joe) we obtain the empty clause ti. proving the query. The need for the inequality formulas should he clearer now. They are needed to complete the proof by restricting the objects which satisfy the completed predicates. Predicate completion performs the, same function as CWA but with respect to the completed predicates only. However with predicate completion. it is possible todefault both negative as well as positive statements. Circumscription Circumscription is another form of default reasoning introduced by John Mc Carthy (1980). It is similar to predicate completion in that all objects that can be shown to have some property P are in fact the only objects that satisfy P. We can use circumscription, like predicate completion. to constrain the objects which must be considered in any given situation. Suppose we have a university world situati. n in which there are two known CS students. We with to state that the known students are the only students, to "circumscribe the students CSSTUDENT(a) CSST(JOENT(b) Let x be a tuple, that is x = (x1 ......,,). and let denote a relation of. the same amy as P. Also let.KB((O(.r)) denote a KB with every . occurrence of P 92 Dealing with Inconsistencies and Uncertainties Chap. 5 in KB replaced by 4). The usual form of circumscribing P in KB, denoted as CIR(KB:P), is given by Cfl((KB : P) = KB & IV4)(KB(4)) & (Vx4)(x) -. P(x))J - Vx IP(x) - This amounts to replacing KB with a different KB in which some expression 4) (in this example 4) 