e outcomesofitsactions.
Episodic vs. sequential: In an episodic task environment, the agent s experience is
EPISODIC
dividedintoatomicepisodes. Ineachepisodetheagentreceivesaperceptandthenperforms
SEQUENTIAL
asingle action. Crucially, the next episode does not depend on theactions taken inprevious
episodes. Many classification tasks are episodic. For example, an agent that has to spot
defective parts on an assembly line bases each decision on the current part, regardless of
previous decisions; moreover, the current decision doesn t affect whether the next part is
44 Chapter 2. Intelligent Agents
defective. In sequential environments, on the other hand, the current decision could affect
allfuture decisions.3 Chessand taxidriving aresequential: inboth cases, short-term actions
can have long-term consequences. Episodic environments are much simpler than sequential
environments becausetheagentdoesnotneedtothinkahead.
Staticvs.dynamic: Iftheenvironment canchangewhileanagentisdeliberating, then
STATIC
wesaytheenvironment isdynamic forthatagent;otherwise, itisstatic. Staticenvironments
DYNAMIC
areeasytodealwithbecausetheagentneednotkeeplookingattheworldwhileitisdeciding
on an action, nor need it worry about the passage of time. Dynamic environments, on the
other hand, are continuously asking the agent what it wants to do; if it hasn t decided yet,
that counts as deciding to do nothing. If the environment itself does not change with the
passage of time but the agent s performance score does, then we say the environment is
semidynamic. Taxidrivingisclearlydynamic: theothercarsandthetaxi itselfkeepmoving
SEMIDYNAMIC
whilethe driving algorithm dithers about whattodonext. Chess, whenplayed withaclock,
issemidynamic. Crosswordpuzzlesarestatic.
Discretevs.continuous: Thediscrete continuous distinction applies tothestateofthe
DISCRETE
environment, to the way time is handled, and to the percepts and actions of the agent. For
CONTINUOUS
example, the chess environment has a finite nu