tational convention of writing the slot name capitalized and prefixing it with the colon. We will also denote concrete elements (frames) in lower case letters. We expect the two constituent values of Players of the third example to be in turn frames that contain more information about the two persons. This is in fact universally true of fillers, keeping in mind that we treat atoms as frames with no additional information, apart from the name of the atom. The sets above and on the left-hand side of the solid line in Figure 14.1 contain abstract objects that stand for sets of objects, abstract or concrete. An abstract frame can be thought of an abstraction of a kind of frame, which specifies all the properties common to the objects in the set it stands for. The direction orthogonal to the aggregation direction is the abstraction direction. Edges between objects along this dimension represent the abstraction relation. In the frame system, this edge is represented as a slot whose value is another non-atomic abstract frame, and that says that the current frame (object) is a kind of the filler frame (object). Traditionally, this a-kind-of relation is specialized into two relations. The first called Instance-Of is used to relate a concrete object (frame) to an abstract object (frame). The second called s-A is used to relate two abstract frames. We will use the convention of denoting abstract frames (objects) with capitalized names. Abstract frames correspond to classes in the object-oriented paradigm, and concrete frames to instances. There can be multiple occurrences of the above two slots, as in the following examples, (hans-berliner :Instance-Of ChessPlayer :Instance-Of Professor :Name Hans :FamilyName Berliner :Werk carnegie-mellon-university AN AAAA? (Professor :Is-A Academician :Is-A Emplcyee -) The Is-A relation defines a taxonomy of the concepts, in which two concepts are related by abstraction and specialization relations. The frame Cheetah is a specialization of 