ominant strategy, note that when (v b ) is positive, any bid
i i i o
that wins the auction is optimal, and bidding v in particular wins the auction. On the other
i
hand, when (v b )isnegative, anybid that loses the auction isoptimal, and bidding v in
i o i
9 Thereisactuallyasmallchancethattheagentwithhighestvifailstogetthegoods,inthecaseinwhich
bo vi bo d.Thechanceofthiscanbemadearbitrarilysmallbydecreasingtheincrementd.
10 Namedafter William Vickrey(1914 1996), whowonthe1996Nobel Prizeineconomicsforthisworkand
diedofaheartattackthreedayslater.
682 Chapter 17. Making Complex Decisions
particularlosestheauction. Sobidding v isoptimalforallpossiblevaluesofb ,andinfact,
i o
v istheonlybidthathasthisproperty. Becauseofitssimplicityandtheminimalcomputation
i
requirements for both seller and bidders, the Vickrey auction is widely used in constructing
distributed AI systems. Also, Internet search engines conduct over a billion auctions a day
to sell advertisements along with their search results, and online auction sites handle 100
billionayearingoods,allusingvariantsofthe Vickreyauction. Notethattheexpectedvalue
to the seller is b , which is the same expected return as the limit of the English auction as
o
theincrement dgoestozero. Thisisactually averygeneral result: the revenueequivalence
REVENUE
theorem states that, with a few minor caveats, any auction mechanism where risk-neutral
EQUIVALENCE
THEOREM
bidders have values v known only to themselves (but know a probability distribution from
i
whichthosevaluesaresampled),willyieldthesameexpectedrevenue. Thisprinciplemeans
thatthevariousmechanismsarenotcompetingonthebasisofrevenuegeneration, butrather
onotherqualities.
Althoughthesecond-priceauctionistruth-revealing, itturnsoutthatextendingtheidea
tomultiplegoods andusinganext-price auction isnottruth-revealing. Many Internet search
engines use a mechanism where they auction k slots for ads on a page. The highest bidder
wins the top spot, the second highest gets the second 