h a new sentence we have never seen before, how do we make sense of it? 1 We must admit though that the situation is not ideal, being far better for some of us than for others. 2 See also http: www. fourmilab.ch babbage contents.html 3 Hobbes in the comic strip Calvin Hobbes was named after him (Waterson, 1995). 4 Named after the fictional computer of the same name in Douglas Adam s celebrated novel, The Hitchhiker s Guide to the Galaxy. The computer was created by a pan-dimensional, hyper-intelligent race of beings to come up with the Answer to The Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything. 5 See http: www.robothalloffame.org 6 The name derives from a 1942 play of the name ETAOIN SHRDLU by Frederic Brown about an artificially intelligent Linotype machine. The title itself was based on the order of letter keys on the Linotype machine. See http: hci.stanford.edu winograd shrdlu name.html 7 See http: wordnet.princeton.edu fc http: www.ai.mit.edu projects humanoid-roboticsgroup kismet kismet.html 9 In Romeo and Juliet 10 See for example Sounds like Bach by Douglas Hofstadter, at http: www.unc.edu mumukshu gandhi gandhi hofstadter.htm (accessed on August 20, 2010). 11 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Cogito ergo sum 12 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Solipsism 13 From http: www.worldsbestchatbot.com 14 We use the term model in the sense of the word theory, something that stands for the real thing and needs to be validated. Logicians also use word theory for what we mean here by a model, and model for a domain and a mapping that satisfies the theory. J See http. en. wikipedia. org wiki Digital philosophy and http: en.wikipedia. org wiki Ed Fredkin 16 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Digital physics 17 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki George Berkeley 18 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Maya (illusion) for a detailed description. 19 Plot summary by Jake Gittes at http: www.imdb.comstitleAt0 133093 plotsummary State Space Search Chapter 2 Problem solving basically