h contains information describing a rigid part. The shape and size is described by a set of dimensions, and a joint type describes how it is connected to other parts. Each connection also contains information about the placement of the connected part in terms of position, orientation, scale and reflection. The artificial creature is controlled by a virtual brain, made up of a collection of neurons, distributed across the body parts.2 The brain is a dynamical system that accepts input sensor values, and generates output to control the system. The output values are applied as forces or torques at the degrees of freedom of the body s joints. The sensors can sense the position of body parts contact with body parts and light. The brain has internal neurons that define its internal state and play a role in determining the out signals. Thus, the creature is more than a reactive system. While neurons are distributed along body parts, there is also one set of central neurons that allows for global synchronization of movement and central control. When a creature is synthesized from its genetic description, the neural components described within each part are generated along with the morphological structure. This causes blocks of neural-control circuitry to be replicated, along with each instantiated part, so that each duplicated segment of a creature can have a similar but an independent, local control system. These local control systems can be connected to enable the possibility of coordinated control. Figure 4.23 below from (Sims, 1994) shows some of the virtual creatures evolved for walking. The author says that The walking fitness measure also produced a surprising number of simple creatures that could shuffle or hobble along at fairly high speeds. Some walk with lizardlike gaits using the corners of their parts. Some simply wag an appendage in the air to rock back and forth in just the right manner to move forward. A number of more complex creatures emerged that push or 