and-bound. Begin generating complete paths, keeping track of the shortest path found so far. Give up exploring any path as soon as its partial length becomes greater than the shortest path found so far. Using this technique, we are still guaranteed to find the shortest path. Unfortunately, although this algerithm is more efficient than the first one, it still requires exponential time. The exact amount of time it saves for a particular problem depends on the order in which the paths are explored. But it is still inadequate for solving large problems. 2.2.2 Heuristic Search In order to solve many hard problems efficiently, it is often necessary to compromise the requirements of mobility and systematicity and to construct a control structure that is no longer guaranteed to find the best answer but that will almost always find a very good answer. Thus we introduce the idea of a heuristic.5 A 5 The word heuristic comes from the Greek word heuriskein, meaning to discover, which is also the origin of eureka, derived from Archimedes reputed exclamation, heurika (for T have found ), uttered when he had discovered a method for determining the purity of gold. 34 Artificial Intelligence RRR NSS OTIS ERROR ETNA I ITE heuristic is a technique that improves the efficiency of a search process, possibly by sacrificing claims of completeness. Heuristics are like tour guides. They are good to the extent that they point in generally interesting directions; they are bad to the extent that they may miss points of interest to particular individuals. Some heuristics help to guide a search process without sacrificing any claims to completeness that the process might previously have had. Others (in fact, many of the best ones) may occasionally cause an excellent path to be overlooked. But, on an average, they improve the quality of the paths that are explored. Using good heuristics, we can hope to get good (though possibly nonoptimal) solutions to hard problems, such as the traveling salesm