r undone if they prove unwise. If they can, then the process of planning a complete solution can proceed just as would an attempt to find a solution by actually trying particular actions. If a dead-end path is detected, then a new one can be explored by backtracking to the last choice point. So, for example, in solving the 8-puzzle, a computer could look for a solution plan in the same way as a person who was actually trying to solve the problem by moving tiles on a board. If solution steps in the real world cannot be ignored or undone, though, planning becomes extremely important. Although real world steps may be irrevocable, computer simulation of those steps is not. So we can circumvent the constraints of the real world by looking for a complete solution in a simulated world in which backtracking is allowed. After we find a solution, we can execute it in the real world. | i | i | [ Planning 249 The success of this approach, however, hinges on another characteristic of a problem s domain: Is its universe predictable? If we look for a solution to a problem by actually carrying out sequences of operations, then at any step of the process we can be sure of the outcome of that step; it is whatever happened. But in an unpredictable universe, we cannot know the outcome of a solution step if we are only simulating it by computer. At best, we can consider the set of possible outcomes, possibly in some order according to the likelihood of the outcomes occurring. But then when we produce a plan and attempt to execute it, we must be prepared in case the actual outcome is not what we expected. If the plan included paths for all possibte outcomes of each step, then we can simply traverse the paths that turn out to be appropriate. But often there are a great many possible outcomes, most of which are highly unlikely. In such situations, it would be a great waste of effort to formulate plans for all contingencies. Instead, we have two choices. We can just take things one step at 