epresentation isillustrated in Figure7.6.
The final issue to consider is grounding the connection between logical reasoning
GROUNDING
processes andthe real environment inwhich theagent exists. Inparticular, how do weknow
that KB is true in the real world? (After all, KB is just syntax inside the agent s head.)
This is a philosophical question about which many, many books have been written. (See
Chapter26.) Asimpleansweristhattheagent ssensors createtheconnection. Forexample,
our wumpus-world agent has a smell sensor. The agent program creates a suitable sentence
whenever there is a smell. Then, whenever that sentence is in the knowledge base, it is
true in the real world. Thus, the meaning and truth of percept sentences are defined by the
processesofsensingandsentenceconstruction thatproducethem. Whatabouttherestofthe
agent s knowledge, such as its belief that wumpuses cause smells in adjacent squares? This
is not a direct representation of a single percept, but a general rule derived, perhaps, from
perceptual experience but not identical to a statement of that experience. General rules like
this are produced by a sentence construction process called learning, which is the subject
of Part V. Learning is fallible. It could be the case that wumpuses cause smells except on
February29inleapyears,whichiswhentheytaketheirbaths. Thus,KB maynotbetruein
therealworld,butwithgoodlearning procedures, thereisreasonforoptimism.
7.4 PROPOSITIONAL LOGIC: A VERY SIMPLE LOGIC
PROPOSITIONAL Wenowpresentasimplebutpowerfullogiccalled propositional logic. Wecoverthesyntax
LOGIC
of propositional logic and its semantics the way in which the truth of sentences is deter-
mined. Then we look at entailment the relation between a sentence and another sentence
thatfollows from it andseehow thisleads toasimple algorithm forlogical inference. Ev-
erything takesplace, ofcourse, inthewumpusworld.
6 As Wittgenstein(1922)putitinhisfamous Tractatus: Theworldiseverythingthatisthecase. 244 Chapter 7. Log