s that adding 0 to any natural number m gives m itself. Notice
theuseofthebinaryfunctionsymbol intheterm (m,0);inordinary mathematics, the
termwouldbewritten m 0usinginfixnotation. (Thenotationwehaveusedforfirst-order
INFIX
9 The Peano axiomsalso include theprinciple of induction, whichisa sentence of second-order logic rather
thanoffirst-orderlogic.Theimportanceofthisdistinctionisexplainedin Chapter9.
304 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
logiciscalledprefix.) Tomakeoursentencesaboutnumberseasiertoread,weallowtheuse
PREFIX
ofinfixnotation. Wecanalsowrite S(n)asn 1,sothesecond axiombecomes m,n Nat Num(m) Nat Num(n) (m 1) n (m n) 1.
Thisaxiomreduces additiontorepeated application ofthesuccessorfunction.
The use of infix notation is an example of syntactic sugar, that is, an extension to or
SYNTACTICSUGAR
abbreviation of the standard syntax that does not change the semantics. Any sentence that
usessugarcanbe desugared toproduceanequivalentsentenceinordinaryfirst-orderlogic.
Once we have addition, it is straightforward to define multiplication as repeated addi-
tion, exponentiation asrepeated multiplication, integer division and remainders, primenum-
bers, and so on. Thus, the whole of numbertheory (including cryptography) can be built up
fromoneconstant, onefunction, onepredicate andfouraxioms.
The domain of sets is also fundamental to mathematics as well as to commonsense
SET
reasoning. (Infact, itispossible todefinenumbertheory in termsofsettheory.) Wewantto
beable torepresent individual sets, including the empty set. Weneed awaytobuild up sets
by adding an element to a set or taking the union or intersection of two sets. We will want
to know whether an element is a member of a set and we will want to distinguish sets from
objectsthatarenotsets.
Wewilluse the normal vocabulary of set theory as syntactic sugar. The empty set is a
constant written as . There is one unary predicate, Set, which is true of sets. The binary
predicates are x s (x is a memberof set s)and s s (se