 which are either true or false only. The use of two valued logics is considered by some practitioners as too limiting. They fail to effectively represent vague or fuzz> concepts. "TALL" For example, you no doubt would be willing to agree that the predicate is true for Pole, the seven foot basketball player, and false for STr Ttge the midget. But, what value would you assign for Tom, who is 5 foot t O inches' What about Bill who is 6 foot 2. or Joe who is 5 foot 5? If you agree 7 foot is tall, then is 6 foot Ii inches also tall? What about 6 foot 10 inches? If we continued this process of incrementally decreasing the height through a sequence of applications ot inodus ponens, we would eventually conclude that a three foot person is tall. Intuitively. we expect the inferences should have failed at some point, but at what point? In FOPL there is no direct way to represent this type of concept. Furthermore, it is not easy to represent vague statements such as "slightly more beautiful.' "not quiteas young as .. ..not very expensive, but of questionable reliability," "a little bit to the left," and so forth. Theory of Fuzzy Sets In standard set theor>. an object is either a member of a set or it is not. There is no in between. The natural numbers 3, II, 19, and 23 are members of the set of prime numbers, but 10. blue, cow, and house are not members. Traditional logics are based on the notions that P(a) is true as long as a is a member of the set belonging to class P and false otherwise. There is no partial containment. This 898 Dealing with Inconsistencies and Uncertainties Chap. 5 amounts to the use of a characteristic function f for a set A: where f A(X) = I if x is in A: otherwise it is 0. Thus, f is defined on the universe U and for all x E U, f:U .{O,l}. We may generalize the notion of a set by allowing characteristic functions to assume values other than 0 and I For example, we define the notion of a fuzzy set with the characteristic function u which maps from U to