t to Holding(nil). 12 Again, we stick to Graphplan styled numbering of layers. 13 We can use the sum of the costs of actions, if actions have costs associated with actions. 14 The weighted A algorithm uses the function f(n) g(n) w-A(n) to pick nodes for expansion. 15 We continue to use A for the set of actions. The papers use the term O, for operators, also commonly used elsewhere. The paper uses A for axioms which we have replaced with D, for derived axioms. 16 And hence the name Downward . 17 There are people who will vouch for this. 18 The description is only illustrative. Not everyone uses ghee. And chapati making is a more complex action, better modelled as a hierarchical compound action. 19 We impose the further constraint that no logical condition can both be required to hold and be asserted at the same instant (Fox and Long, 2003). Hence, they cannot finish together. 20 The standard example used in literature requires a light-match to make light available at the end of a mend-fuse action that is longer in duration. 21 The literature on Sapa uses the term delayed effects. 22 In July 1994, the comet broke up into pieces and crashed into Jupiter. See http: www2.jpl.nasa.gov sl9 23 See also http: ti.arc.nasa.gov tech asr planning-andscheduling remote-agent A teleo-reactive (T-R) program is a mid-level agent control program that robustly directs an agent toward a goal in a manner that continuously takes into account the agent s changing perceptions of a dynamic environment. - Nils Nilsson http: ai.stanford.edu users nilsson trweb tr.html 25 The Event Calculus is a framework for reasoning about events and change, and has predicates like Happens and Initiates. In CAIP, only one such meta-level predicate Holds is used to assert that an action happens or a state persists over a time interval. 26 The Executive though, as expected, treats them differently. Actions are what it needs to activate in the agent and states are observations it gets. 27 Thanks to . Murugeswari