on-based theorem provers have been used to prove interesting mathe-
maticaltheoremsandtoverifyandsynthesize softwareandhardware.
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL AND HISTORICAL NOTES
Gottlob Frege, who developed full first-order logic in 1879, based his system of inference
on a collection of valid schemas plus a single inference rule, Modus Ponens. Whitehead
and Russell (1910) expounded the so-called rules of passage (the actual term is from Her-
brand (1930)) that are used to move quantifiers to the front of formulas. Skolem constants
358 Chapter 9. Inference in First-Order Logic
and Skolem functions were introduced, appropriately enough, by Thoralf Skolem (1920).
Oddlyenough, itwas Skolemwhointroduced the Herbranduniverse(Skolem,1928).
Herbrand s theorem (Herbrand, 1930) has played a vital role in the development of
automated reasoning. Herbrand is also the inventor of unification. Go del (1930) built on
the ideas of Skolem and Herbrand to show that first-order logic has a complete proof pro-
cedure. Alan Turing (1936) and Alonzo Church (1936) simultaneously showed, using very
different proofs, that validity in first-order logic was not decidable. The excellent text by
Enderton(1972)explainsalloftheseresultsinarigorousyetunderstandable fashion.
Abraham Robinson proposed that an automated reasoner could be built using proposi-
tionalizationand Herbrand stheorem,and Paul Gilmore(1960)wrotethefirstprogram. Davis
and Putnam(1960)introducedthepropositionalizationmethodof Section9.1. Prawitz(1960)
developed the key idea of letting the quest for propositional inconsistency drive the search,
and generating terms from the Herbrand universe only when they were necessary to estab-
lishpropositional inconsistency. Afterfurtherdevelopmentbyotherresearchers,thisidealed
J.A.Robinson(norelation) todevelopresolution (Robinson, 1965).
In AI, resolution was adopted for question-answering systems by Cordell Green and
Bertram Raphael(1968). Early AIimplementations putagood dealofeffortinto datastruc-
