 ideational function relates to the content: intended by the speaker. This function provides irrna!ion about the kinds of activities being described, who the actors are, whether there are other participants, and the circumstances related to time and place. These concepts bear some similarity to the case grammars described above. 2. The interpersonal function is concerned with the purpose and mood of the statements, whethet a question is being asked, an answer being given, a request being made, an opinion being offered, or information given. 3. The textual function dictates the necessity for continuity and coherence between the current and previously stated expressions. This function is concerned with the theme of the conversation, what is known, and what is newly expressed. Halliday proposed a model of language which consisted of four basic categories. Language units. A hierarchy for sentences based on the sentence, clause, phrase group, word, and morpheme. Role structure of units. A unit consists of one or mo Te units of lower rank based on its role, such as subject, predicate, complement, or adjunct. Sec. 12.3 Grammars and Languages Classification of units. Units are classified by the role they play at the next higher level. For example, the verbal serves as the predicate, the nominal serves as the subject or complement, and so on. System constraints. Tbese are constraints in combining. component features. For example, the network structure given below depicts the constraints in an interpretation. declarative independen. imperative yes-no clause---- - interrogative-1 wlidependen' Given these fewprinciples, it is possible to build a grammar which combines much semantic information with the syntactic. Many of the ideas from systemic 'grammars were use .d in the successful system SHROLU developed by Terry Winograd (1972). This syst& ri is described later in the chapter. Semantic Gran imars Semantic gram mars encode semantic information into a syntactic grammar. They 