ut the state of affairs in Fig. 7.5 is incomplete. We are told Suspect Abbott [IN] that Abbott is a beneficiary. We have no further justification for this fact; we must simply accept it. For such facts, we give a premise justification: a justification with empty INand OUTlists. Premise justifications are always valid. Figure 7.6 shows such a justification added to the network and a consistent labeling for that network, which shows Suspect Abbott labeled IN. t That Abbot is the primary suspect represents an initial state of the murder investigation. Subsequently, the detective establishes that Abbott is listed on the register of a good Albany hotel on the day of the murder. This provides a valid reason to believe Abbott s alibi. Figure 7.7 shows the effect of adding such a justification to the network, assuming that we have used forward (data-driven) rules as shown in Fig. 7.3 for all of our reasoning except possibly establishing the top-level goal. That Abbott was registered at the hotel. Registered Abbott, was told to us and has a premise justification and so is labeled IN. That the hotel is far away is also asserted as a premise. The register might have been forged, but we have no good reason to believe it was. Thus Register Forged lacks any justification and is labeled OUT. That Abbott was on the register of a far away hotel and the lack of belief that the register was forged will cause the appropriate forward rule to fire and create a justification for Alibi-Abbort, which is thus labeled IN. This means that Suspect Abbott no longer has a valid justification and must be labeled OUT. Abbott is no longer a suspect. Beneficiary Abbott [IN] Alibi Abbott [OUT] Fig. 7.6 Labeled Nodes with Premise Justification 164 Artificial Intelligence 8h ea NORONR ARE RACES INA AREAL MORN STRAT PRONE Notice that such a TMS labeling carefully avoids saying that the register definitely was not forged. It only says that there is currently no good reason to believe that it was. Just lik