that a penalty function is associated with them. In the normal CSP, a solution is an assignment that satisfies all the constraints unequivocally. With soft constraints on the other hand, a solution can be accepted even if the constraints, usually a few are not satisfied. The caveat is that one has to incur a penalty with not satisfying those constraints. Thus problems with soft constraints have costs associated with solutions. A zero cost solution would be one where all constraints are satisfied. Solutions where some constraints are violated will have a non-zero cost, dependent on which constraints are violated. The problem of solving a CSP with soft constraints thus becomes an optimizing problem in which one has to find a solution that minimizes the penalty or cost. One particular problem that is of interest is reasoning with time. When reasoning with problems involving time, one may have to deal with a set of variables that represent time. These variables take values from the real domain, and typically there are two approaches to representing time in what are known as temporal constraint networks. In one approach, variables are associated with time points, and in the other, with time intervals. In both, one can have constraints between variables, and one may be required to solve such networks. We will not explore such networks in detail, but introduce them briefly in the next chapter in the context of planning with durative actions. The reader interested in greater detail is referred to (Dechter, 2003), (Apt, 2003), and (Rossi et al., 2006). ) e a Exercises 1. Express the 6-queen problem associated with Figure 9.2, with relations in the extension form. 2. The N-queens problem in the chapter uses column labels a, b, c... . An alternate set of labels would be numbers 1, 2, ..., N . Here, the chessboard is viewed as an N x N array, with the indices (j, k) of each square being the location. The N-queen problem can then be expressed as a collection of N such indices th