or until a complete iteration produces no change to current state: (a) Let SUCC be a state such that any possible successor of the current state will be better than SUCC. (b) For each operator that applies to the current state do: (i) Apply the operator and generate a new state. (ii) Evaluate the new state. If it is a goal state, then return it and quit. If not, compare it to SUCC. If it is better, then set SUCC to this state. If it is not better, leave SUCC alone. (c) Ifthe SUCC is better than current state, then set current state to SUCC. To apply steepest-ascent hill climbing to the colored blocks problem, we must consider all perturbations of the initial state and choose the best. For this problem, this is difficult since there are so many possible moves. There is a trade-off between the time required to select a move (usually longer for steepest-ascent hill climbing) and the number of moves required to get to a solution (usually longer for basic hill climbin ) that must be considered when deciding which method will work better for a particular problem. Both basic and steepest-ascent hill climbing may fail to find a solution. Either algorithm may terminate not by finding a goal state but by getting to a state from which no better states can be generated. This will happen if the program has reached either a local maximum, a plateau, or a ridge. A local maximum is a state that is better than all its neighbors but is not better than some other states farther away. At a local maximum, all moves appear to make things worse. Local maxima are particularly frustrating because they often occur almost within sight of a solution. In this case, they are called foothills. A plateau is a flat area of the search space in which a whole set of neighboring states have the same value. On a plateau, it is not possible to determine the best direction in which to move by making local comparisons. A ridge is a special kind of local maximum. It is an area of the search space that is hi