 probability of any first-order logical sentence as a sum
overthepossible worldswhereitistrue:
(cid:12)
P( ) P( ). (14.13) : istruein Conditional probabilities P( e)canbe obtained similarly, sowecan, inprinciple, ask any
question we want of our model e.g., Which books are most likely to be recommended
highlybydishonest customers? and getananswer. Sofar,sogood.
There is, however, a problem: the set of first-order models is infinite. We saw this
explicitlyin Figure8.4onpage293,whichweshowagainin Figure14.18(top). Thismeans
that(1)thesummationin Equation(14.13)couldbeinfeasible,and(2)specifyingacomplete,
consistent distribution overaninfinitesetofworldscould beverydifficult.
Section 14.6.2 explores one approach to dealing with this problem. The idea is to
borrow not from the standard semantics of first-order logic but from the database seman-
tics defined in Section 8.2.8 (page 299). The database semantics makes the unique names
assumption here, weadoptitfortheconstant symbols. Italsoassumes domainclosure there are no more objects than those that are named. We can then guarantee a finite set of
possible worlds by making the set of objects in each world be exactly the set of constant
Section14.6. Relational and First-Order Probability Models 541
R J R J R J R J R J R J
. . . . . .
. . .
R J R J R J R J R J
R R R R . . . R
J J J J J
Figure14.18 Top:Somemembersofthesetofallpossibleworldsforalanguagewithtwo
constantsymbols,Rand J,andonebinaryrelationsymbol,underthestandardsemanticsfor
first-orderlogic. Bottom: thepossibleworldsunderdatabasesemantics. Theinterpretation
oftheconstantsymbolsisfixed,andthereisadistinctobjectforeachconstantsymbol.
symbols that are used; as shown in Figure 14.18 (bottom), there is no uncertainty about the
mappingfromsymbolstoobjectsorabouttheobjectsthatexist. Wewillcallmodelsdefined
RELATIONAL in this way relational probability models, or RP Ms.7 The most significant difference be-
PROBABILITYMODEL
tween the semantics of RP Msand the database se