 complement of a state is with respect to the set ML G C . The function legal (state:S) will return no or false if either both G and C or both L and G are missing from S, otherwise it will return yes or true . The following figure shows the well known Ejght Puzzle used extensively in one of the earliest textbooks on artificial intelligence (Nilsson, 1971). The goal is to find a path to a desired arrangement of tiles, for example as shown in Figure 2.8. The idea in weak methods or general methods in artificial intelligence (Al) is that we develop a general algorithm that can be applied to many domains. In the above examples, we have illustrated how problems can be posed as search problems. Let us return to the design of the search algorithms. The following refinement of Generate Test falls in the category of forward state space search. Here we begin with the START state and search until we reach the GOAL state. (2) 4 Ea ey) ae) Goal pec Sec FIGURE 2.8 The Eight Puzzle consists of eight tiles on a 3 x 3 grid. A tile can slide into an adjacent location if it is empty. A move is labelled R if a tile moves right, and likewise for up (U), down (D) and left (L). 2.2 Simple Search 1 We assume a bag data structure called OPEN to store the candidates that we have generated. The algorithm is given below. SimpleSearchl ( 1 open j start 2 while cpen is not empty 3 do pick some node n from open 4 open open n) 5 if GoalTest(n) TRUE then return n 7 else cpen open U MoveGen(n) 8 return FAILURE FIGURE 2.9 Algorithm SimpleSearch1. Box 2.2: Hercules, Hydra and CombEx In Greek mythology, one of the monsters that Hercules found himself fighting was Hydra. Hydra was not an easy monster to deal with. For every head that Hercules chopped off, many more grew in its place. The problem faced by our search program is not unlike the one faced by Hercules. For every node that Simple-Search-1 picks to inspect, many more are added in the bag. In mathematical terms, the search tree generated by the 