 the branch-and-bound technique could be used to find the shortest solution to a water jug problem. Problems, Problem Spaces, and Search 49 . For each of the following types of problems, try to describe a good heuristic function: (a) Blocks world (b) Theorem proving (c) Missionaries and cannibals . Give an example of a problem for which breadth-first search would work better than depth-first search. Give an example of a problem for which depth-first search would work better than breadth-first search. . Write an algorithm to perform breadth-first search of a problem graph. Make sure your algorithm works properly when a single node is generated at more than one level in the graph. . Try to construct an algorithm for solving blocks world problems, such as the one in Fig. 2.10. Do not cheat by looking ahead to Chapter 13. CHAPTER 3 HEURISTIC SEARCH TECHNIQUES Failure is the opportunity to begin again more intelligently. Moshe Arens (1925-), Israeli politician In the last chapter, we saw that many of the problems that fall within the purview of artificial intelligence are too complex to be solved by direct techniques; rather they must be attacked by appropriate search methods armed with whatever direct techniques are available to guide the search. In this chapter, a framework for describing search methods is provided and several general-purpose search techniques are discussed. These methods are all varieties of heuristic search. They can be described independently of any particular task or problem domain. But when applied to particular problems, their efficacy is highly dependent on the way they exploit domain-specific knowledge since in and of themselves they are unable to overcome the combinatorial explosion to which search processes are so vulnerable. For this reason, these techniques are often called weak methods. Although a realization of the limited effectiveness of these weak methods to solve hard problems by themselves has been an important result that emerged fr