 be replaced by
one instantiation, a universally quantified sentence can be replaced by the set of all possible
instantiations. Forexample, supposeourknowledgebasecontainsjustthesentences x King(x) Greedy(x) Evil(x)
King(John)
(9.1)
Greedy(John)
Brother(Richard,John).
Then weapply UI to the first sentence using all possible ground-term substitutions from the
vocabulary oftheknowledge base inthiscase, x John and x Richard . Weobtain
King(John) Greedy(John) Evil(John)
King(Richard) Greedy(Richard) Evil(Richard),
and we discard the universally quantified sentence. Now, the knowledge base is essentially
propositional if we view the ground atomic sentences King(John), Greedy(John), and
so on as proposition symbols. Therefore, we can apply any of the complete propositional
algorithms in Chapter7toobtainconclusions suchas Evil(John).
This technique of propositionalization can be made completely general, as we show
in Section 9.5; that is, every first-order knowledge base and query can be propositionalized
in such a way that entailment is preserved. Thus, we have a complete decision procedure
for entailment ... or perhaps not. There is a problem: when the knowledge base includes
a function symbol, the set of possible ground-term substitutions is infinite! For example, if
the knowledge base mentions the Father symbol, then infinitely many nested terms such as
Father(Father(Father(John)))canbeconstructed. Ourpropositional algorithms willhave
difficultywithaninfinitelylargesetofsentences.
Fortunately, there is a famous theorem due to Jacques Herbrand (1930) to the effect
thatifasentence isentailed bytheoriginal, first-order knowledge base, thenthere isaproof
involving justafinite subset ofthepropositionalized knowledge base. Sinceanysuch subset
has a maximum depth of nesting among its ground terms, we can find the subset by first
generatingalltheinstantiations withconstantsymbols(Richard and John),thenalltermsof
depth1(Father(Richard)and Father(John)),thenalltermsofdepth2,ands