nts (there can be no vertices if all eight octants are filled), we get a complete list of the possible trihedral vertices and their labelings (equivalent to that developed by Clowes [1971]). This list is shown in Fig. 14.17. Notice that of the 208 labelings that we said were theoretically possible, only eighteen are physically possible. Thus we have found a severe constraint on the way that lines in drawings corresponding to real figures can be labeled. Of course, at this point we have only found a constraint on the ways in which simple trihedral vertices can be labeled. Many figures, such as those shown in Fig. 14.11, contain nontrihedral vertices, In addition, many figures contain shadow areas, which can be of great use in analyzing the scene that is being portrayed. When these variations are considered, there do become more than eighteen allowable vertex labelings. But when these variations are allowed, the number of theoretically possible labelings becomes much larger than 208, and, in fact, the ratio of physically allowable vertices to theoretically possible ones becomes even smaller than 18/208. Thus not only can this approach be extended to larger domains, it must be. MOQ Fig. 14.14 The Four Trihedral Vertex Types Fig. 14.15 A Figure Occupying One Octant Understanding 281 Directly above Upper left corner : Adjacent to the right Upper right + + + + + + + comer Adjacent to : the left Diagonally on + Diagonally 1 bottom floor on top {a) 1 ARROW: th: | 1 FORK: na 4 () Fig. 14.16 The Vertices of a Figure Occupying One Octant As a result of this analysis, we have been able to articulate one class of constraints that will be needed by a line-labeling procedure. These constraints are static (since the physical rules they are based on never change), and so they do not need to be represented explicitly as part of a problem state. They can be encoded directly into the line-labeling algorithm. The other class of constraints we will need contains the dynamic ones that des