aces: The actual changes must somehow be reflected in memory. a feat that requires some ability to infer. Effective memory organization and management methods must take into account effects caused by the frame problem. In the remainder of this chapter we consider three basic problems related to knowledge organization; ( I ) classifying and computing indices for input information presented to a system. 12) access and retrieval of kno ledge from memory through the use of the computed indices, and (3) the reorganization of memory struciure when necessary to accommodate additions, revisions, and forgetting. These tunetion are depicted in Figure 11.2. 11.2 INDEXING AND RETRIEVAL TECHNIQUES When a know ledge base is too large to he held in main niernon . it iliust he stored as a tile in secondary storage (disk, drum or tape). Storage and retrieal of intoi In -At ion in secondary memory is then performed through the transfer ol equalsi/c ph 'deal blocks consisting of between 2 12561 and 2H4096) bytes. When an item of intorniation is retrieed or stored, at least one complete block must he transferred bet's een main and secondary memory. The time required to transfer a block t\p Icall\ r.iilges between It) ms. and 100 ms. . about the same amount of time required to sequeritiall search the whole block for an item. Clearly. then, grouping related knoss ledge together as a unit can help to reduce the number of block transfers, and hence die total access time. An example of et)eet i e grouping alluded to abos e . an he found in some expert system KB organizations. Grouping together rules s hih share some of the sa Ifl C conditions (propositions) and conclusions call block transfer tutics since such rules are likely to he needed during the saute problem sols ing session (oiic qucntly . collecting rules together h similar conditions or content call to teduec the number of block transfers required. A noted before, the RF II al,orithiv - scribed III previous chapter. is all of this 