-needed check-catalog)))) Figure 10.3 tat Frame structure and WI (h I corresponding A-list code, Variables AU of the structures we shal Icons ider here are constructed front basic atomic elements, numbers, and characters. Character string elements may represent either constants or variables. If variables, they may be classified by either the type of match permitted or by their value domains. We can classify match variables by the number of items that can replace them (one or more than one). An open variable can be replaced by a single item. while a segment variable can be replaced by zero or more items. Open variables are labeled with a preceding question mark ( )x. 'v. ?class). They may match or assume the value of any single string element or word. but they are sometimes subject to consistency constraints. For example. to he consistent, the variable ?X can be bound only to the same top level element in any single structure. Thus (a x d ?x e) may match (a b d h e. but not (a b d it Segment ariable types will be preceded with an asterisk *x. *1. *words . This type of variable can match an arbitrary number or segment of contiguous atomic elements (an N sublist including the empty list). For example. (t d (c f) *v) hill match the patterns (a (b l t I(e [) ' h). (ci (c]) (t)) or other similar patterns Segment variables may also he subject to consistency constraints similar to open variables. Variables may also he classified by their value domains. This distinction will be useful when we consider similarity measures below. The variables may be either quantitative, having a meaningful origin or zero point and a meaningful interval difference between two values, or they may be qualitative in which (here is no origin nor meaningful interval value difference. These two ipes may be further subdivided as follows. Nominal variables. Qualitative variables whose values or states have no order nor rank. It is only possible to distinguish equality or inequality between two Sec. 10