etwork, the assertion that all persons have
two legs has only default status; that is, a person is assumed to have two legs unless this is
contradictedbymorespecificinformation. Thedefaultsemanticsisenforcednaturallybythe
inheritance algorithm, because it follows links upwards from the object itself (John in this
case)andstopsassoonasitfindsavalue. Wesaythatthedefaultisoverriddenbythemore
OVERRIDING
specific value. Notice that we could also override the default number of legs by creating a
categoryof One Legged Persons,asubsetof Persons ofwhich John isamember.
Wecanretainastrictly logical semantics forthenetworkif wesaythatthe Legs asser-
tionfor Persons includes anexception for John: x x Persons x (cid:7) John Legs(x,2).
For a fixed network, this is semantically adequate but will be much less concise than the
networknotationitselfiftherearelotsofexceptions. Foranetworkthatwillbeupdatedwith
moreassertions, however, such anapproach fails wereally wanttosay thatanypersons as
yetunknownwithonelegareexceptionstoo. Section12.6goesintomoredepthonthisissue
andondefaultreasoning ingeneral.
12.5.2 Descriptionlogics
The syntax of first-order logic is designed to make it easy to say things about objects. De-
scription logics are notations that are designed to make it easier to describe definitions and
DESCRIPTIONLOGIC
properties of categories. Description logic systems evolved from semantic networks in re-
sponse to pressure to formalize what the networks mean while retaining the emphasis on
taxonomic structureasanorganizing principle.
The principal inference tasks for description logics are subsumption (checking if one
SUBSUMPTION
category is a subset of another by comparing their definitions) and classification (checking
CLASSIFICATION
whetheranobject belongs toacategory).. Somesystems also include consistency ofacate-
gorydefinition whether themembershipcriteria arelogically satisfiable.
Section12.5. Reasoning Systemsfor Categories 457
Concept Thing Concept Name And(Concept