lications like machine translation, question answering and grammar checking. While tasks like Information Retrieval also need a knowledge of morphology in principle, they tend to do away with elaborate morphological processing by using simpler and faster algorithms for arriving at canonical representations for variants of a given word. A popular tool is the Porter's algorithm (Porter, 1980). 16.2.3 Lexical Semantics using WordNet WordNet (Miller, 1995) is a lexical reference system developed at Princeton University. It is based on psycholinguistic theories of human lexical memory. While at a gross level, it can be viewed as an electronic thesaurus, a critical distinction is that WordNet organizes lexical information in terms of word meanings rather than word forms. The lexicon is divided into five categories: nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs and function words. Words from various Parts of Speech are organized into synonym sets (also called synsets), each representing one underlying lexical concept. Different relations link synsets with other synsets. The following are examples of WordNet relations that are defined over nouns. Synonymy refers to a similarity of meaning. Antonymy is a lexical relation between word forms, not a semantic relation between word meanings. Thus, rise is an antonym of fall, but is not an antonym of descend. Hyponymy and Hypernymy are semantic relations between word meanings. A concept represented by a synset is said to be a hyponym of a concept represented by a different synset, if the former is-a(kind of) the latter. The latter would be called a hypernym of the former. For example, maple is a hyponym of tree , and tree is a hyponym of plant . Meronymy and holonymy are again semantic relations between word meanings. A concept represented by a synset is said to be a meronym of a concept represented by a different synset, if the former is a part of the latter. The latter would be called a holonym of the former. WordNet also has Morphological 