lifting ability of a wing design. She may also construct a finite element model on a computer system, or work with other forms of mathematical formulas with a pencil and paper. Models also allow us to understand the world around us and explain phenomena like the rain, and the movement of the sun and the stars in our sky. Models are representations of reality that are acceptable as long as they are useful. For humans, the sun used to go around the earth till Copernicus found a new model that explained the motion of heavenly bodies better. The world used to be flat until Columbus embarked upon a journey around the world. Newton s laws of physics are good for everyday world dynamics, but break down at the sub-atomic level. Einstein showed that even our notion of time flowing at a constant steady pace is not really correct . Models can reflect reality with varying degrees of fidelity. Models can also be at varying levels of detail. The more detailed and accurate they are, the more work (computation) they require to make predictions. Consider the well-known example of computing the time that an object will take to go from point A to point B. We could model the movement of its different parts and integrate the results. For example, if the object in question is a boy on a bicycle, we could twist ourselves silly, reasoning about the movement of a point on the rim of the wheel, or the movement of his knee. More sensibly, we tend to model the boy on the bicycle as a point moving in a (hopefully) linear trajectory and apply a simple formula to determine the time it would take him. But this simple model does not tell us how his weight applies varying amounts of pressure on the two tyres, as he rocks forward and backward gaining momentum; and how the bicycle swings from left to right and back with his frantic pedalling. If we required that information, we would need a considerably more complex model, requiring much more computation. When doing modelling, we have to make a trade-