7.1 Addition over a quantity space ) BY Py 0 PY Y - - - - 0 - - x 0 - 0 - 0 0 0 0 (YJ 0 Observe that addition of a positive value and a negative value is undefined. Consider a water tank with a tap at the bottom to let the water out. Let us say that tank contains some water and the outlet tap is open. We can represent the flow of water from the tap with the variable FlowTap which says that the flow of water inwards is negative. This stands for the fact that water is flowing out from the tank. Let us say that at the same time, water is being filled into the tank represented by the variable Flow n . This represents the fact that water the flow inwards is positive. The net flow of water into the tank is FlowTap Flow n which is undefined. This is understandable. Since we only know that water is flowing in as well as flowing out, but do not know the exact rate, we are unable to say whether the net flow is positive or negative or zero. When the two quantities in question come from different orders of magnitudes then it should be possible to decide which one will prevail. For example, if the input flow is small and the output flow is big, then one can conclude that the net flow is out. One attempt to resolve such ambiguities is to use order of magnitude representations, described in the following section. Multiplication is defined as follows. Table 17.2 Multiplication over a quantity space. py 0 pg y - - - 0 - 0 - - 7 0 - 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (Y - - 0 0 17.2.2 Orders of Magnitude Consider the example of a ball hitting the wall of a room. For the sake of argument, let us assume that the wall is moving in a direction towards the ball. The wall can be considered to be part of the earth and, while the ball is in the air, we can think of it as another body. Then, we have a two body collision in which both momentum and energy need to be conserved. But we never think of the earth slowing down as a result of a collision with the ball. This is consistent with orders of magnitude reasoning