 MAX level and the best real value at MIN levels. When it terminates, the VERIFY phase begins selecting nodes with the criteria of nodes reversed, starting at the chosen node. The two phases continue alternately, till a move has been found which has a high probability of being better than the other moves. The reader is encouraged to read the articles by Berliner for more details, for some of the chess-specific knowledge that has been built into the system, and the use of parallelism in the Hitech machine that used the B search algorithm. We will conclude by observing the main differences between SSS and B search. SSS does a best first search over a fixed horizon. It starts by picking leaf nodes that represent all possible strategies, and refines the best one till the best strategy is fully refined. B , on the other hand, does selective search from the very beginning. In the first phase, it tries to optimistically find moves that look good from MAX s perspective. In this phase, it may plunge down the tree till it feels that it has identified the best move from its choices. In the second phase, it pessimistically tries to check whether the move is really good. At all times, it keeps optimistic and pessimistic bounds on the value of each node. When a move becomes distinctly better than the other options, it can terminate. This could happen after different amounts of exploration in different situations. It could happen quickly after a short search phase, or it may extend to longer periods when the surface is flat and not discriminatory. B can then progressively raise its minAct parameter to narrow down on its search space. The search space explored by B is schematically depicted in Figure 8.36 below, adapted from the paper by Berliner. FIGURE 8.36 Schematic illustrating the search done by B , as compared to a full tree search by variants of the Minimax algorithm. The reasoning in B is done on the basis of a series of small probe searches as shown by the smaller envelope