 10 cities is tractable (3.628.000 tours). One with 20 or more cities is not, since a worst-case search requires oil the order of 20! (about 23 x 10') tours. The state space for the problem can also be represented as a graph as depicted in Figure 9.5. Without knowing in advance the length ofa minimum tour, it would be necessary to traverse each of the distinct paths shown in Figure 9.5 and compare their lengths. This requires some O(n!) traverses through the graph, an exponential number. General Problem Solver The General Problem Solver was developed by Newell. Simon. and Shaw (Ernst and Newell, 1969) in the late 1950s. It was important as a research tool for several reasons and notable as the first Al system which cleanly serated the task knowledge from the problem solving part. General Problem Solver was designed to solve a variety of problems that could be formulated as a set of objects and operators, where the operators Were applied to the objects to transform them into a goal object through a sequence of applications. Given an initial object (state) and a goal object (state), the system attempted to transform the initial object to the goal object through a series of operator application transformations. It used a set of methods similar to those discussed in Chapter 8 for each goal type, to achieve that goal by recursively creating and solving subgoals. The basic method is known as means-end analysis, which we now describe. Figure 9.4 A typical tour for the traveling salesman problem. Sec. 9.3 Examples of Search Problems 173 Startin City Next city Return to starting city /V . V ........... Figure 9.5 State space representation for the TSP. Means-end analysis. The problem space of means-end analysis has an initial state (object) and one or more goal states (objects), a set of operators O. with given preconditionsfor their application, and a difference function that computes the difference between two states 5, and S, A problem is solved using means-end analysis y