that many of us do not have, they often require much less knowledge than do the more mundane skills and that knowledge is usually easier to represent and deal with inside programs. Mundane Tasks Perception - Vision - Speech Natural language - Understanding - Generation - Translation * Commonsense reasoning Robot control Formal Tasks e Games - Chess - Backgammon ~ Checkers -Go Mathematics - Geometry - Logic - Integral calculus - Proving properties of programs. Expert Tasks Engineering - Design - Fault finding - Manufacturing planning Scientific analysis Medical diagnosis Financial analysis Fig. 1.1 Some of the Task Domains of Artificial Intelligence As a result, the problem areas where AI is now flourishing most as a practical discipline (as opposed to a purely research one) are primarily the domains that require only specialized expertise without the assistance of commonsense knowledge. There are now thousands of programs called expert systems in day-to-day operation throughout all areas of industry and government. Each of these systems attempts to solve part, or perhaps all, of a practical, significant problem that previously required scarce human expertise. In Chapter 20 we examine several of these systems and explore techniques for constructing them. 6 Artificial Intelligence otek ETTORE Before embarking on a study of specific AI problems and solution techniques, it is important at least to discuss, if not to answer, the following four questions: 1, What are our underlying assumptions about intelligence? 2. What kinds of techniques will be useful for solving AI problems? 3. At what level of detail, if at all, are we trying to model human intelligence? 4. How will we know when we have succeeded in building an intelligent program? The next four sections of this chapter address these questions. Following that is a survey of some AI books that may be of interest and a summary of the chapter. 1.2 THE UNDERLYING ASSUMPTION At the heart of research in artificial intelli