sequence of the two. S (Vol p(.1) - Q(.r() S Pill) 4.13 Transform the following formula to prenex normal form Vxv (]z P(.:.) & P(v.:)( -. 3u Q(.r.s,u) 4.14 Prove that the formula 3x P(.) Vx P(r) is always true if the domain D contains only one clement. 4.15 Find the standard normal form for the folowirig statement. V1 ( P( x O) (3v (Ply .g(r) I & V: (P(:.gtr)J - Pt.: I) 4.16 Referring to Problems 4.4 and 4.5, use resolution to show (by refutation) that you can get from Town-E to Town-C. 4.17 Write a LISP resolution program to answer different queries about a knowledge base where the knowledge base and queries are given in clausal form. For example. (setq KB (Al to A13)) (query (GE1TO Town-E Town-Q) 4.18 Given the following information for a database: Al. lfxis on top of y,vsupports x. A2. If x is above)' and they are touching each other. .r is on top of v. A3. A cup is above a book. A4. A cup is touching a book. (a) Translate statements Al through A4 into clausal form. (b) Show that the predicate supports (book, cup) is true using resolution. 4.19 Write a PROLOG program using Al to A4 of Problem 4.18, and show that SUPPORTS (book cup) is true. 5 Dealing with Inconsistencies. and Uncertainties The previous chapter considered methods of reasoning under conditions of certain, complete, unchanging, and consistent facts. It was implicitly assumed that a sufficient, amount of reliable knowledge (facts, rules, and the like) was available with which to deduce confident conclusions. While this form of reasoning is important, it suffersfrom several limitations. I. It is not possible to describe many envisioned or real-world concepts; that is, it is limited in expressive power. 2. There is no way to express uncertain, imprecise, hypothetical or vague knowledge, only the truth or falsity of such statements. 3. Available inference methods are known to be inefficient. 4. There is no way to produce new knowledge about the world. It is only possible to add what is derivable from th