. Similarly, if I am going to the dentist for a regular checkup,
the probability P(cavity) 0.2might beofinterest; but if Igo tothe dentist because Ihave
atoothache, it s P(cavity toothache) 0.6thatmatters. Notethattheprecedence of is
suchthatanyexpression oftheform P(... ...)alwaysmeans P((...) (...)).
It is important to understand that P(cavity) 0.2 is still valid after toothache is ob-
served; it just isn t especially useful. When making decisions, an agent needs to condition
on all the evidence it has observed. It is also important to understand the difference be-
tween conditioning and logical implication. The assertion that P(cavity toothache) 0.6
does not mean Whenever toothache is true, conclude that cavity is true with probabil-
ity 0.6 rather it means Whenever toothache is true and we have no further information,
conclude that cavity is true with probability 0.6. The extra condition is important; for ex-
ample, if we had the further information that the dentist found no cavities, we definitely
would not want to conclude that cavity is true with probability 0.6; instead we need to use
P(cavity toothache cavity) 0.
Mathematically speaking, conditional probabilities are defined in terms of uncondi-
tionalprobabilities asfollows: foranypropositions aandb,wehave
P(a b)
P(a b) , (13.3)
P(b)
whichholdswhenever P(b) 0. Forexample,
P(doubles Die 5)
P(doubles Die 5) 1 .
1
P(Die 5)
1
The definition makes sense if you remember that observing b rules out all those possible
worldswhere bisfalse,leaving asetwhosetotalprobability isjust P(b). Withinthatset,the
a-worldssatisfy a bandconstitute afraction P(a b) P(b).
486 Chapter 13. Quantifying Uncertainty
Thedefinition of conditional probability, Equation (13.3), can be written in a different
formcalledtheproductrule:
PRODUCTRULE
P(a b) P(a b)P(b),
Theproduct ruleisperhaps easiertoremember: itcomesfrom thefactthat,foraandbtobe
true,weneedbtobetrue,andwealsoneed atobetruegivenb.
13.2.2 The languageofpropositions inprobabilit