: The state resulting from taking a flight will have the flight s desti-
nationasthecurrentlocation andtheflight sarrivaltimeasthecurrenttime. Goaltest: Areweatthefinaldestination specifiedbytheuser? Path cost: This depends on monetary cost, waiting time, flight time, customs and im-
migrationprocedures, seatquality, timeofday,typeofairplane, frequent-flyer mileage
awards,andsoon.
74 Chapter 3. Solving Problemsby Searching
Commercial travel advice systems use a problem formulation of this kind, with many addi-
tional complications to handle the byzantine fare structures that airlines impose. Any sea-
soned traveler knows, however, that not all air travel goes according to plan. A really good
systemshouldincludecontingencyplans suchasbackupreservationsonalternateflights totheextentthatthesearejustifiedbythecostandlikelihood offailureoftheoriginalplan.
Touring problems are closely related to route-finding problems, but with an impor-
TOURINGPROBLEM
tant difference. Consider, for example, the problem Visit every city in Figure 3.2 at least
once, starting and ending in Bucharest. As with route finding, the actions correspond
to trips between adjacent cities. The state space, however, is quite different. Each state
must include not just the current location but also the set of cities the agent has visited.
So the initial state would be In(Bucharest),Visited( Bucharest ), a typical intermedi-
ate state would be In(Vaslui),Visited( Bucharest,Urziceni,Vaslui ), and the goal test
wouldcheckwhethertheagentisin Bucharestandall20citieshavebeenvisited.
TRAVELING
The traveling salesperson problem (TSP) is a touring problem in which each city
SALESPERSON
PROBLEM
must be visited exactly once. The aim is to find the shortest tour. The problem is known to
be NP-hard,butanenormousamountofefforthasbeenexpendedtoimprovethecapabilities
of TSP algorithms. In addition to planning trips for traveling salespersons, these algorithms
havebeenusedfortaskssuchasplanningmovementsofautomaticcircui