 for Grasping Perception and Action 444 rea L_ (a) () Fig. 21.12 Native and Clever Strategies for Placement This type of motion, which reacts to forces generated by the world, is called compliant motion. Compliant motion is very robust in the face to uncertainty. Humans employ compliant motion in a wide variety of activities, such as writing on chalkboards. So given a pick-and-place problem, how can we automatically generate a sequence of compliant motions? One approach [Lozano-Perez et al, 1984] is to use the familiar problem-solving process of backward chaining. Our initial and goal states for the peg-in-hole problem are represented as points in configuration space, as shown in Fig. 21.13. First, we compute the set of points in c-space from which we are guaranteed to reach the goal state in a single compliant motion, assuming a certain degree of . uncertainty in initial position and direction of movement and certain facts about relative friction. This set of points is called the goal state s _ tate strong pre-image.? In Fig. 21.13, the swong pie-image of the goal state is shown in gray. Now we use backward chaining to design a set of motions that is guaranteed to get us from the initial state to strong pre-image of goal state : : . joal soine point in the goal states strong pre-image. Recursively applying oot this procedure will eventually yield a set of motions that, while Fig. 21.13 Planning with Uncertainty individually uncertain, combine to form a guaranteed plan. in Configuration Space 21.4 ROBOT ARCHITECTURES Now let us turn to what happens when we put it all together perception, cognition, and action. There are many decisions involved in designing an architecture that integrates all these capabilities, among them: e What range of tasks is supported by the architecture? What type of environment (e.g., indoor, outdoor, space) is supported? e How are complex behaviors turned into sequences of low-level actions? 1s control centralized or distributed? How are nu