ions true false unknown
Temporallogic facts,objects,relations,times true false unknown
Probabilitytheory facts degreeofbelief 0,1 Fuzzylogic factswithdegreeoftruth 0,1 knownintervalvalue
Figure8.1 Formallanguagesandtheirontologicalandepistemologicalcommitments.
Inthenextsection,wewilllaunchintothedetailsoffirst-orderlogic. Justasastudentof
physicsrequiressomefamiliaritywithmathematics,astudentof AImustdevelopatalentfor
workingwithlogicalnotation. Ontheotherhand,itisalsoimportantnottogettooconcerned
with the specifics of logical notation after all, there are dozens of different versions. The
mainthingstokeepholdofarehowthelanguage facilitates concise representations andhow
itssemanticsleadstosoundreasoning procedures.
8.2 SYNTAX AND SEMANTICS OF FIRST-ORDER LOGIC
We begin this section by specifying more precisely the way in which the possible worlds
of first-order logic reflect the ontological commitment to objects and relations. Then we
introduce thevariouselementsofthelanguage, explaining theirsemantics aswegoalong.
8.2.1 Models forfirst-order logic
Recall from Chapter 7 that the models of a logical language are the formal structures that
constitute the possible worlds under consideration. Each model links the vocabulary of the
logical sentences to elements of the possible world, so that the truth of any sentence can
be determined. Thus, models for propositional logic link proposition symbols to predefined
truth values. Models forfirst-order logic are much moreinteresting. First, they have objects
inthem! Thedomainofamodelisthesetofobjectsordomainelementsitcontains. Thedo-
DOMAIN
mainisrequiredtobenonempty everypossibleworldmustcontainatleastoneobject. (See
DOMAINELEMENTS
Exercise 8.7 for a discussion of empty worlds.) Mathematically speaking, it doesn t matter
whattheseobjects are all thatmatters is howmanythereareineachparticularmodel but
for pedagogical purposes we ll use a concrete example. Figure 8.2 shows a model with five
3 Itisimportantnottoconfusethedegree