This would exonerate M, and would lead to a conflict A,, Mo , or A;, Az, M3 . The reader should verify that the minimal candidates now are Aj , M2, M3 and Mp, Ap . C, 7 or any value not equal to 4 or 6. This will also lead to a conflict M, and imply Ab(M,). The value F, 10 however would be inconsistent with C, 8 and would lead to the conflicts A, Mo , or A;, Az, M3 . This would be a case of more than one fault in the system. The minimal candidates would be M, Ay , M1, Mo, M3 and M,, Mo, Ad . GDE keeps track of inferences that enable it to identify possible points for measurement. The details of how the ATMS represents data are described in Section 17.4. In our example, it keeps the following dependencies in the form Value, Supporting-environment(s) . C1 4, Mp, Ay , A1, Ao, Ms C2 4, A1, Ma C2 6, Mo , A2, M3 C3 8, A1, Az, M C3 6, M3 , (Az, Mo Every variable that receives different values is a candidate for measurement. The question is which variable to measure next. The answer will depend upon many factors. Chief amongst them is the cost of making the measurement. If making a measurement is cheap, then one could go ahead and make all possible measurements. However, this is not often the case, and one may have to choose measurements carefully. The best measurement would be the one that eliminates half the candidates for diagnosis. If this could be done then one would arrive at a diagnosis with the smallest number of measurements on the average. The decision of where to take the measurement will also depend upon knowledge of which components are more likely to fail. If that information is available then terminals which have the most likely to fail component in their environment can be given preference. If the a priori probabilities are known then a minimum entropy approach can be used to select a measurement point (de Kleer and Brown, 1987). The details of this approach are beyond the scope of this text. However, we present a simpler approach presented by de Kleer (1990