-state POMDP on page 661 in which the sensor is
90 reliable in state 0 but provides no information in state 1 (that is, it reports 0 or 1 with
equal probability). Analyze, eitherqualitatively orquantitatively, theutility function andthe
optimalpolicyforthisproblem.
17.16 Showthatadominant strategy equilibrium isa Nashequilibrium, butnotviceversa.
17.17 In the children s game of rock paper scissors each player reveals at the same time
a choice of rock, paper, or scissors. Paper wraps rock, rock blunts scissors, and scissors cut
paper. In the extended version rock paper scissors fire water, fire beats rock, paper, and
scissors; rock, paper, and scissors beat water; and water beats fire. Write out the payoff
matrixandfindamixed-strategy solutiontothisgame.
17.18 Thefollowingpayoffmatrix,from Blinder(1983)bywayof Bernstein(1996),shows
agamebetweenpoliticians andthe Federal Reserve.
Fed: contract Fed: donothing Fed: expand
Pol: contract F 7,P 1 F 9,P 4 F 6,P 6
Pol: donothing F 8,P 2 F 5,P 5 F 4,P 9
Pol: expand F 3,P 3 F 2,P 7 F 1,P 8
Politicians can expand or contract fiscal policy, while the Fed can expand or contract mon-
etary policy. (And of course either side can choose to do nothing.) Each side also has pref-
erences for who should do what neither side wants to look like the bad guys. The payoffs
shown are simply the rank orderings: 9 for first choice through 1 for last choice. Find the
Nashequilibriumofthegameinpurestrategies. Isthisa Pareto-optimalsolution? Youmight
wishtoanalyzethepolicies ofrecentadministrations inthislight.
692 Chapter 17. Making Complex Decisions
17.19 ADutchauction issimilarinan Englishauction, butratherthanstarting thebidding
atalowpriceandincreasing, ina Dutchauctionthesellerstartsatahighpriceandgradually
lowers the price until some buyer is willing to accept that price. (If multiple bidders accept
the price, one is arbitrarily chosen as the winner.) More formally, the seller begins with a
price p and gradually lowers p by increments of d 