ith a set of pairs, each consisting of a sentence and a representation of the meaning of the sentence. This is analogous to the experience of a child who hears a sentence and sees something at the same time. How could such a program be built using the techniques discussed in this chapter? Germany italy Britain CHAPTER 18 CONNECTIONIST MODELS The brain struggling to understand the brain ts society trying to explain itself. Colin Blakemore (1944-), British neurobiologist In our quest to build intelligent machines, we have but one naturally occurring model: the human brain. One obvious idea for Al, then, is to simulate the functioning of the brain directly on a computer. Indeed, the idea of building an intelligent machine out of artificial neurons has been around for quite some time. Some early, results on brainlike mechanisms were achieved by Mc Culloch and Pitts [1943], and other researchers pursued this notion through the next two decades, e.g., Ashby [1952], Minsky [1954], Minsky and Selfridge [1961], Block [1962], and Rosenblatt [1962]. Research in neural networks came to virtual halt in the 1970s, however, when the networks under study were shown to be very weak computationally. Recently, there has been a resurgence of interest in neural networks. There are several reasons for this, including the appearance of faster digital computers on which to simulate larger networks, the interest in building massively parallel computers, and, most important, the discovery of new neural network architectures and powerful learning algorithms. The new neural network architectures have been dubbed connectionist architectures. For the most part, these architectures are not meant to duplicate the operation of the human brain, but rather to receive inspiration from known facts about how the brain works. They are characterized by having: e A large number of very simple neuronlike processing elements. A large number or weighted connections between the elements, The weights on the con