 building is not on the upper side of that boundary. The final product of the analyzer is, of course, a description of the scene. This is constructed as a hierarchical network as illustrated in Figure 14.31. Ohta's system has demonstrated that it can deal with fairly complex scenes, including objects with substruitures. To validate this claim, a number of outdoot scenes from the Kyoto University campus were analyzed correctly by the system. scene Obiect region Subregion Pitch Pi,.I Figure 14.31 Basic structure of the scene description. Chap. 14 Exercises 323 14.7 SUMMARY Computer vision is a computation intensive process. It involves multiple transformations starting with arrays of low level pixels and progressing to high level scene descriptions. The transformation process can be viewed as three stages of processing: lowor early-level processing, intermediate-, and highor late-level processing. Low-level processing is concerned with the task of finding structure among thousands of atomic gray-level (or tnstimulus) pixel intensity values. The goal of this phase is to find and define enough structure in the raw image to permit its segmentation into coherent regions which correspond todelinable objects from the source scene. Intermediate-level processing is concerned with the task of accurately forming and describing the segmented regions. The atomic units Zf this phase are regions and subregions. Finally, high-level processing requires that the segmented regions from the intermediate stage be transformed into scene descriptions. This stage of processing is less, mechanical than the two previous siages and relies more on classical Al methods of symbolic processing. - Low-level processing usually involves some form of smoothing operation on the digitized arrays. Smoothing helps to reduce noise and other unwanted features. This is followed by some form of edge detection such as the application of difference operators to the arrays. Edge fragments must then be joined to 