GNIZING AND UNDERSTANDING SPEECH Developing systems that understand speech has been a continuing goal of Al researchers. Speech is one of our most expedient and natural forms of communication, and so understandably, it is a capability we would like Al systems to possess. The ability to communicate directly with progqtms offers several advantages. It eliminates the need for keyboard entries and speeds up the interchange of information between user and system. With speech as the communication medium, users are also free to perform other tasks concurrently with the computer interchange. And finally. more untrained personnel would be able to use computers in a variety of applications. The recognition of continuous waveform patterns such as speech begins with sampling anfd) d igitizing the waveforms. In this case the feature values are the sampled points x, = as illustrated in Figure. 13.5. It is known from information theory that a sampling rate of twice the highest speech frequency is needed to capture the information content of the speech waveforms. Thus, sampling requirements will normally be equivalent to 20K to 30K bytes per second. While this rate of information in itself is not too difficult to handle, this, added to the subsequent processing, does place some heavy requirements on real time understanding of speech. Following sample digitization, the signals are processed 'at different levels of abstraction. The lowest level deals with phones (the smailest unit of sound), allophones (variations of the phoneme as they actually occur in words), and syllables. Higher level processing deals with words, phrases, and sentences. The processing approach may be from the bottom, top, or a combination of both. When bottom processing is used the input signal is segmented into basic speech units and a search is made to match prestored patterns against these units. Knowledge about the phonetic composition of words is stored in a lexicon for comparisons. For the top approach, sy