ch as prepositional phrases PP. adjectives ADJ, determiners DEl. adverbs ADV, auxiliary verbs AUX. and so on. Additional rewrite rules permitting the use of these constituents could include some of the following: PP - PREP NP VP-I. V ADV vp V PP VP-. V NP PP VP-. AUX V NP. DET-. ART ADJ DET-.ART These extensions broaden the types of sentences that can he generated by permitting the added constituents in sentence forms such as The mean boy locked the dog in the house. The cute girl worked to make some extra money. These sentences have the form S -* NP VP PP. Tranfotietion& Grammars The generative grammars described above generally produce different structures for sentences having different syntactical forms even though they may have the same semantic content: For example, the active and passive forms of a sentence will result in two different phrase marker structures. The sentences be kissed Sue" (active voice) and "Sue, was kissed by Joe' (passive voice( result in the structures depicted in Figure 12.2 where the subject and object roles for Joe and Sue are switched. . Obtaining different structures from sentences having the same meaning is undesirable in language understanding systems. Sentences with the same meaning should always map to the same internal knowledge structures. In an attempt to repiir these shortcomings in generative grammars, Chomsky (l965)extended them by incorporating two additional components to the basic syntactic component. The added components provide a mechanism to produce single representations tr sentences having the same meanings through a series of transformations. This extended grammar is called a transformational generative grammar. its additions include a semantic component and a phonological component. They are used to interpret the output of the syntactic component by producing meanings and sound sequences. The transformations are essentially tree manipulatiortrules which depend on the use of an extended lexicon (dictionary) containi