f (a) and (b), a recursive divide-and-conquer algorithm can be con-
structed by first running forward along the sequence and then backward from the end,
storing just the required messages at the middle and the ends. Then the algorithm is
calledoneachhalf. Writeoutthealgorithm indetail.
d. Computethetimeandspacecomplexityofthealgorithmasafunctionoft,thelengthof
thesequence. Howdoesthischangeifwedividetheinputintomorethantwopieces?
15.4 Onpage577,weoutlinedaflawedprocedureforfindingthemostlikelystatesequence,
given an observation sequence. The procedure involves finding the most likely state at each
timestep, usingsmoothing, andreturning thesequence composed ofthesestates. Showthat,
for some temporal probability models and observation sequences, this procedure returns an
impossible statesequence (i.e.,theposteriorprobability ofthesequenceiszero).
15.5 Equation (15.12) describes thefiltering process forthematrix formulation of HM Ms.
Giveasimilarequationforthecalculation oflikelihoods, whichwasdescribedgenerically in
Equation(15.7).
15.6 Consider the vacuum worlds of Figure 4.18 (perfect sensing) and Figure 15.7 (noisy
sensing). Suppose that the robot receives an observation sequence such that, with perfect
sensing, there is exactly one possible location it could be in. Is this location necessarily the
most probable location under noisy sensing for sufficiently small noise probability (cid:2)? Prove
yourclaimorfindacounterexample.
15.7 In Section 15.3.2, the prior distribution over locations is uniform and the transition
model assumes an equal probability of moving to any neighboring square. What if those
assumptions are wrong? Suppose that the initial location is actually chosen uniformly from
the northwest quadrant of the room and the Move action actually tends to move southeast.
Keeping the HMM model fixed, explore the effect on localization and path accuracy as the
southeasterly tendency increases, fordifferent valuesof (cid:2).
15.8 Consideraversionofthevacuumrobo