 which it can,occur, since they implicitly encode the superset contexts. The label {A2} is the greatest lower bound of the first, third, and fourth label, and {A8} is the same for the second label. Thus those two contexts are all that are required as the label for the node. Now let s consider labeling node 8. Its Jabel must be the union of the labels of nodes 7, 13, and 14. Bui nodes 13 and 14 have complex labels representing alternative justifications. So we must consider all ways of combining the labels of all three nodes. Fortunately, some of these combinations, namely those that contain both A7 and A8, can be eliminated because they are already known to be contradictory. Thus we are left with a single label as shown. Now suppose the problem-solving program labels the context {A2} as no good, meaning that the assumption it contains (namely that the hotel register was not forged) conflicts with what it knows. Then many of the labels that we had disappear since they are now inconsistent. In particular, the labels for nodes 1, 2,9, 10, and 12 disappear. At this point, the only suspect node that has a label is node 8. But node 12 (Not prime suspect Abbott) also still has a label that corresponds to the assumption that Abbott, Babbitt, and Cabot are not the only suspects. If this assumption is made, then Abbott would: not be a clear suspect even if the hotel register were forged. Further information or some choice process is still necessary to choose between these remaining nodes. SUMMARY In this chapter we have discussed several logical systems that provide a basis for nonmonotonic reasoning, including nonmonotonic logic, default logic, abduction, inheritance, the closed world assumption, and circumscription. We have also described a way in which the kind of rules that we discussed in Chapter 6 could be augmented to support nonmonotonic reasoning. We then presented three kinds of TMS systems, all of which provide a basis for implementing nonmonotonic reasoning. We ha