set of axioms over V. Axioms are of the form cond, v, d where cond is a partial variable assignment called the condition or body of the axiom, v is a derived variable, and d D, is a value of the variable that is assigned when the condition is true. The pair (v, d) is called the head of the axiom. A is a set of actions of the form precond, effects , where precond is a partial variable assignment, and effects contains a set of effects of the form effect cond, v, d . The effect assigns the value d D, to the variable v. If the condition in cond, v, d is non-empty then the effect is a conditional effect, affected only when the condition is true. Fast Downward begins by creating some graphs described below. The aim is to be able to decompose the planning task into subtasks which can be evaluated independently to estimate the heuristic values. The causal graph heuristic estimates the cost of reaching the goal by solving a number of subtasks of the planning tasks by looking at segments of the causal graph. The costs are computed over domain transition graphs. A Domain Transition Graph (DTG) for a variable ve V, introduced by Jonsson and Backstr m (1998), is a representation of the ways in which the variable can change values. The nodes in the graph are the values in the domain of v, Dy. An edge from a value d to a value d' is added to DTG(v) under following conditions. If vis a fluent then for each effect cond, v, a' of an action a with precondition precond, if precond U cond contains some condition v d, an edge from d to d' labelled with (precond U cond) v d is added. if precond U cond does not contain the condition v d for any deDy, an edge from each deD, d labelled with (precond U cond) is added. If vis a derived variable then for axiom condition cond, v, d' D, such that, cond contains some condition v d, an edge from d to d' labelled with cond cond v d is added. cond does not contain the condition v d for any deD,, an edge from each deD, d labelled with cond is added. E