sses (or semiosis) are processes whereby something comes to signify something else to somebody (and somebody here may be taken in the broadest sense possible, as any system possessing an evolved capacity for becoming alerted by a sign). The study of living systems from a semiotic (sign theoretic) perspective is called biosemiotics. According to biosemiotics, most processes in animate nature at whatever level, from the single cell to the ecosystem, should be analysed and conceptualized as sign processes. Biosemiotics is concerned with the sign aspects of the processes of life. In the biosemiotic conception, the life sphere is permeated by sign processes (semiosis) and signification. Whatever an organism senses also means something to it, food, escape, sexual reproduction, etc.; and all organisms are born into a semiosphere. The study of signs is known as semiotics, and the notion of a semiosphere (Lotman, 1990) refers to a world of meaning and communication: sounds, odours, movements, colours, electric fields, waves of any kind, chemical signals, touch, etc. The semiosphere poses constraints or boundary conditions to the Umwelts of populations since these are forced to occupy specific semiotic niches, i.e. they will have to master a set of signs of visual, acoustic, olfactory, tactile and chemical origin in order to survive in the semiosphere. The behaviour of termites and ants has long been understood as being coordinated through a system of signs. Higher level creatures like mammals routinely employ signs for communication. Many animals are known to mark their territory through various means. Humans, of course, have taken communication through symbols to a totally new level with the invention of language. Even outside of language, we have a rich and diverse system of communicating through signs, and by doing so, we often (consciously) organize ourselves into teams and mobs where the activity of one becomes a sign for others to interpret. One has only to watch a hig