om the built-in conflict resolution strategies in the language, OPS5 also allows the user to define priority of rules. One may define different levels of priority classes as follows. (priority priority-class value). For example, one could have the following priority classes, priority top-level-rule 120) priority higher 60) priority high 50) priority low -50) priority lower -60) priority lowest -100) Then one could assign individual rules to any group, as given below: (rule-priority rule-name priority-class) (rule-priority 1N-opening high) (rule-priority Minor-suit-opening low) The effect of this is that is that if both rules, 7N-opening and Minor-suitopening, are in the Conflict Set then the 1N-opening rule will be preferred over the Minor-suit-opening rule, irrespective of how the in-built strategies evaluate them. 6.6.4 Some Sample Rules We look at a few sample rules from (Khemani, 1989). The rules are for a knowledge based program for declarer play in bridge. The rules give some idea of the language, and also illustrate that rules in a program may embody different functionalities. They may represent some knowledge about expert plays and their applicability, they may be used for describing and recognizing patterns, or they may even be used for run of the mill computations and updating of data. The rule below is used to make an inference about the opponents cards in a given suit when an opening lead is recognized to be the fourth best card of the player s suit . It also makes an inference about how many cards above the led card the partner of the player has. p coulc-be-fourth-best. oc (cutstanding-cards n )j (card-rank card : played lead playe west rank r suit stit ) (partner of west is east ) (card-rank player Rerth south suit suit played ao rank re r ?: number of cards higher int-rank j iz n ) : than c is n -(card-rank player north scuth giit suit aeank ( r zc played 20) opponents hold ( xk 3 cazds-cf suit ) ol isac -- remove oc' ) (bind cif (compute n - ir )) (w