sents the model of the world that the agent has. Observe that we have not represented it as the dotted lines mirroring the outside world because the model of the world the agent carries is not perfect, and may be an abstract model. The humanlike head in the oval represents the fact that the agent is self aware, and can think of itself as part of the model of the world it carries. Of course, a deeper level of awareness would require that the model of itself that it carries should contain a model of the world, with itself in it. The agent knows the world. It knows that it knows the world. It knows that it knows that it knows the world. As one can imagine, this process can go on indefinitely, and practical constraints will dictate how aware the agent is of itself. The ability to imagine can thus be seen as being at the heart of intelligence. One, somewhat extreme view of the universe, called digital philosophy, is that the world itself is a computation being run, that is, it can be seen as a model being executed. The school of philosophy called pancomputationalism claims that all the physical processes of nature are forms of computation or information processing at the most fundamental level of reality . One of its main proponents, Edward Fredkin, who also used the term digital physics' , said that in principle, at least, there is a program or a computer that simulates the world in real time. A natural consequence of this that is of interest to us, is that we can never build perfect models of the universe that can make predictions of events faster than they actually happen. This means that all models we devise must necessarily be abstract to some degree, and must lose on accuracy in the interest of speed. FIGURE 1.2 An intelligent agent in a world carries a model of the world in its head . The model may be an abstraction. A self aware agent would model itself in the world model . Deeper awareness may require that the agent represents (be aware of) itself modeling the w