n. In addition, there may be a case number and a title. The following is an example of a case in conversational CBR . Title: PC not booting Q1. Do you hear a BIOS beep code when you tum on the PC? Yes. Q2. Do you know if your BIOS is made by American Megatrends? Yes. Q3. Did you hear a beep before the BIOS startup screen is displayed? Yes. Q4. Did the boot process continue? No. Q5. Did you see the BIOS startup screen displayed? No. Problem: Dynamic RAM(DRAM) Refresh Failure. Action: 1. Troubleshoot your motherboard 2. Treat this as a memory failure. FIGURE 15.7 An example of a conversational case. The cases are arranged in a tree structure that guides the search for the relevant case by questions posed at each internal node, as illustrated in Figure 15.8. In the figure, nodes are labelled with distinct question labels, but they do not have to be all distinct. For example, Q31 and Q34 could be identical. Retrieval happens by the system asking a sequence of questions, starting at the root, and choosing the edge to traverse, based on the answer given by the user. At the end of the path is a leaf node containing the case, which contains the diagnosis and the therapy actions for the problem indexed by the questions and their answers. The high level retrieval algorithm is given in Figure 15.9. Conversational CBR systems can be built rapidly where the developer can pose the questions that make up the path for each case. No domain representation is needed if the tree is constructed manually. All one needs to do is decide on what questions will index the case. At least one of the questions in a new case must be a node in the existing tree, with a different answer. The path to the new case will divert from this node, and the new questions may be added below that. Figure 15.10 outlines an algorithm to add a new case and its associated conversation to the case base. y y Case Case 2 Case 3 Ass A Ay y A Case Case 5 Case 6 Case 7 Case 8 Case 9 Case A FIGURE 15.8 In conversational 