dified therules and inspired generations of
artistswhoseartisticachievementsamazeustothisday. Particularlynotableintheirdevelop-
mentofthescienceofperspective,asitwascalledinthosedays,were Leonardoda Vinciand
Albrecht Du rer. Leonardo s late15th century descriptions oftheinterplay oflightandshade
(chiaroscuro), umbraandpenumbraregionsofshadows,andaerialperspectivearestillworth
reading in translation (Kemp, 1989). Stork (2004) analyzes thecreation ofvarious pieces of
Renaissance artusingcomputervisiontechniques.
Although perspective was known to the ancient Greeks, they were curiously confused
bytheroleoftheeyesinvision. Aristotlethoughtoftheeyesasdevicesemittingrays,rather
inthemannerofmodernlaserrangefinders. Thismistakenviewwaslaidtorestbythework
of Arabscientists, suchas Abu Ali Alhazen, inthe10thcentury. Alhazenalsodeveloped the
cameraobscura,aroom(camerais Latinfor room or chamber )withapinholethatcasts
an image on the opposite wall. Of course the image was inverted, which caused no end of
confusion. If the eye was to be thought of as such an imaging device, how do we see right-
side up? This enigma exercised the greatest minds of the era (including Leonardo). Kepler
firstproposedthatthelensoftheeyefocusesanimageontheretina,and Descartessurgically
removedanoxeyeanddemonstrated that Keplerwasright. Therewasstillpuzzlement asto
whywedonotseeeverythingupsidedown;todaywerealizeitisjustaquestionofaccessing
theretinaldatastructure intherightway.
Inthe first half of the 20th century, the most significant research results in vision were
obtained bythe Gestalt school ofpsychology, ledby Max Wertheimer. Theypointed outthe
importance of perceptual organization: for a human observer, the image is not a collection
of pointillist photoreceptor outputs (pixels in computer vision terminology); rather it is or-
ganized into coherent groups. One could trace the motivation in computer vision of finding
regions and curves back to this insight. The Gestaltists also drew attention t