 a set of operators O. with given preconditionsfor their application, and a difference function that computes the difference between two states 5, and S, A problem is solved using means-end analysis y: I. Comparing the current state Si to a goal state S. and computing the difference 2. An operator O is then selected to reduce the difference Dc. 3. The operator 04 is applied if possible. If not, the current state is saved, a subgoal is created and means-end analysis is applied recursively to reduce the subgoal. 4. If the subgoal is solved: the saved Slate is restored and work is resumed on the original problem. In carrying out these methods, the General Problem Solver may transform some S, into an intermediate state S, to reduce the difference D,, between states S and S, then apply another operator O to the S. and so on until the state S, is obtained. Differences that may occur between objects will. of course, depend on the task domain. - - As an example, in proving theorems in propositional logic, some common differences that occur are a variable may appear in one object and not in the other. 174 Search and Control Strategies Chap. 9 R&P-->O) (P-->Q)&R V 0) & A (PVQ) & A Figure 9.6 A typical solution tree for (Q VP) &A (it'S. a variable may occur a different number of times between two objects, objects will have different signs or different connectives, associative groupings will differ, and so on. To ir1ujate the search process, we assume the General Problem Solver operators are rewrite rules of the following form: WI: IAVB)-.(BVA) R2: (A&B)-.(B&A) R3: (A-.B)-.(B.-.A) R4: (A-. B)-. ('AVB) As a simple example we suppose General Problem Solver is given the initial propositional logic object L, (R & (P . Q)) and goal object L4 = ((Q V P) & R). To determine L. f Pbm L requires a few simple transformations. The system first determines the difference between the two expressions and then systematically reduces these differences until Lx is obtained from L, or failure occu