because an action caused it, but we also want to say that a literal can
PERSISTENCE persist ifnoaction negates it. Thisisrepresented bya persistence action (sometimes called
ACTION
ano-op). Foreveryliteral C,weaddtotheproblemapersistence actionwithprecondition C
and effect C. Level A in Figure 10.8 shows one real action, Eat(Cake), along with two
0
persistence actionsdrawnassmallsquareboxes.
Level A contains all the actions that could occur in state S , but just as important it
0 0
recordsconflictsbetweenactionsthatwouldpreventthemfromoccurringtogether. Thegray
linesin Figure10.8indicate mutualexclusion(ormutex)links. Forexample, Eat(Cake)is
MUTUALEXCLUSION
mutually exclusive with the persistence of either Have(Cake) or Eaten(Cake). We shall
MUTEX
seeshortlyhowmutexlinksarecomputed.
Level S containsalltheliteralsthatcouldresultfrompickinganysubsetoftheactions
1
in A , as well as mutex links (gray lines) indicating literals that could not appear together,
0
regardless ofthechoiceofactions. Forexample, Have(Cake)and Eaten(Cake)aremutex:
Section10.3. Planning Graphs 381
depending on the choice of actions in A , either, but not both, could be the result. In other
0
words, S represents a belief state: a set of possible states. The members of this set are all
1
subsetsoftheliteralssuchthatthereisnomutexlinkbetweenanymembersofthesubset.
Wecontinue inthisway,alternating betweenstatelevel S andaction level A untilwe
i i
reach apoint wheretwoconsecutive levels areidentical. At thispoint, wesaythatthegraph
hasleveledoff. Thegraphin Figure10.8levelsoffat S .
LEVELEDOFF 2
Whatweendupwithisastructurewhereevery A levelcontainsalltheactionsthatare
i
applicablein S ,alongwithconstraintssayingthattwoactionscannotbothbeexecutedatthe
i
samelevel. Every S level contains allthe literals that could result from anypossible choice
i
of actions in A i 1 , along with constraints saying which pairs of literals are not possible.
It is important to note that the process of constructing the plann