d on relatively unstructured knowledge. It is often impossible to define this knowledge in such a way that a mathematical analysis of its effect on the search process can be performed. There are many heuristics that, although they are not as general as the nearest neighbor heuristic, are nevertheless useful in a wide variety of domains. For example, consider the task of discovering interesting ideas in some specified area. The following heuristic [Lenat, 1983b] is often useful: If there is an interesting function of two arguments f(x, y), look at what happens if the two arguments are identical. In the domain of mathematics, this heuristic leads to the discovery of squaring iff is the multiplication function, and it leads to the discovery of an identity function if f is the function of set union. In Jess formal domains, this same heuristic leads to the discovery of introspection if fis the function contemplate or it leads to the notion of suicide iff is the function kill. Without heuristics, we would become hopelessly ensnarled in a combinatorial ex-plosion. This alone might be a sufficient argument in favor of their use. But there are other arguments as well: e Rarely do we actually need the optimum solution; a good approximation wil] usually serve very well. In fact, there is some evidence that people, when they solve problems, are not optimizers but rather are satisficers [Simon, 1981]. In other words, they seek any solution that satisfies some set of requirements, and as soon as they find one they quit. A good example of this is the search for a parking space. Most people stop as soon as they find a fairly good space, even if there might be a slightly better space up ahead. Problems, Problem Spaces, and Search 35 EPR ARREST SERENE * Although the approximations produced by heuristics may not be very good in the worst case, worst cases rarely arise in the real world. For example, although many graphs are not separable (or even nearly so) and thus cannot be consider