hat...... A high-performance program, or a program that will eventually be taken over by the expert for his own use, must have very easy ways of allowing the knowledge to be modified so that new information can be added and out-of-date information deleted. The problem needs to be a useful, interesting one. There are knowledge-based programs to solve arcane puzzles, but who cares? More important, the user has to understand the system's real value to his work. When Nii begins a project, she first persuades a human expert to commit the considerable time that is required to have the expert's mind mined. Once this is done, she immerses herself in the given field, reading texts, articles, and other material to better understand the field and to learn the basic jargon used. She then begins the interviewing process. She asks the expert to describe his or her tasks and problem solving techniques. She asks the expert to choose a moderately difficult problem to solve as an example of the basic approach. This information is then collected, studied, and presented to other members of the development team so that a quick prototype can be constructed for the expert to review. This serves several purposes. First, it helps to keep the expert in the development loop and interested. Secondly, it serves as a rudimentary model with which to uncover flaws and other problems. It also helps both expert and developer in discovering the real way the expert solves problems. This usually leads to a repeat of the problem solving exercise, but this time in a step-by-step walk through of the sample problem. Nil tests the accuracy of the expert's explanations by observing his or her behavior and reliance on data and other sources of information. She is concerned more with the manipulation of the knowledge than with the actual facts. Keeping the expeit focused on the immediate problem requires continual prompting and encouragement. During the whole interview process Nii is mentally examining alterna