d be computed as a simple majority vote. This is also known as compositional adaptation. In compositional adaptation, the solution is composed from one or more retrieved solutions. Another way of combining the results would be a weighted majority vote, where the weight of each vote would depend upon the similarity of the query with the case. Cases more similar to the query would have a greater say in deciding the class label. The same approach that is used to discriminate between healthy and unhealthy persons could also be used to separate spam from genuine emails (see for example (Padmanabhan et al., 2006)). The set of attributes defining the case will be different. For example, the attributes used to describe an email could be a count of the frequencies of certain words, count of the total number of words, counts of lengths of capital letter sequences, and so on.14 One may observe that for both these problems, the underlying domain model is not strong enough to define rules to discriminate between the two classes. In the human health problem, given the small set of attributes, one cannot expect a clear cut demarcation boundary between the two classes. In fact, it would not be surprising if two cases (persons) with identical data were to belong to different classes. This is mainly because the three attributes may not be sufficient determinants of health status. Nevertheless, there exist notions like the Body Mass Index (BMI) which are presumed to be health indicators. And BMI is defined on only two, height and weight, of the three attributes described here. Given that we are working with only these attributes, one can still glean some information about the ikely health status of a person when there are a large number of cases. Then, one could devise the (weighted) voting procedure to give us a value between 0 (say healthy) and 1 (say unhealthy), that could be interpreted as a likelihood of a particular state being true. A value 1 means that the classification outco