n the two graphs from Chapter 3 reproduced below, the task is to find an optimal path from the start node S to the goal node G. The length of each edge is marked on the graph. Use the Manhattan distance as the heuristic function. Assume that each unit on the grid is 10 kilometres. (a) List the nodes that are on OPEN or CLOSED when A terminates, and indicate their fvalues. (b) Show the order in which A adds nodes to CLOSED. (c) Mark the parent pointers on the graph as and when they are assigned. Show clearly if they are reassigned. pf 3 i t ot t i Pty a ey Lo anna enn n nnn nn panna nnn panne FIGURE 5.34 The graph from Figure 3.22 with weights assigned to edges. 3. Does the Manhattan-distance heuristic function satisfy the monotone criterion for the given problem? Would the Euclidean-distance heuristic function do so? Justify your answer. 4. Consider the state on the left for the 8-puzzle in Figure 5.36. Given that the goal state on the right, how does one define an accurate heuristic function? Consider the pairs of tiles 2, 3 , 4, 8 and 5, 6 . In each pair, the two tiles are in the correct row but in the wrong order. How would one design a heuristic function that accurately reflects the fact that extra moves have to be made to correct the order and move the tiles to their respective positions in the goal state? . Replace the function f (n) g(n) h(n) with the weighted function f (n) g(n) K h(n) for the 8-puzzle and 15-puzzle algorithms. Implement the algorithm and try out different values of K. Report the number of nodes examined for each value of K and the length of the solution found. Conduct the experiment for a set of randomly chosen problems. a 1 t t FIGURE 5.35 The graph from Figure 3.23 with weights assigned to edges. 6. Given the following three conditions, Arvind claims that the A algorithm may not terminate with the shortest path. (a) Branching factor is finite. (b) Cost of each edge is greater than zero. (c) The heuristic function underestimates the distan