tate
What the world
How the world evolves is like now
What it will be like
What my actions do if I do action A
How happy I will be
Utility
in such a state
What action I
should do now
Actuators
Figure27.1 Amodel-based,utility-basedagent,asfirstpresentedin Figure2.14.
while robotic systems focused on low-level tasks in which high-level reasoning and plan-
ning were largely absent. This was due in part to the great expense and engineering effort
required to get real robots to work at all. The situation has changed rapidly in recent years
with the availability of ready-made programmable robots. These, in turn, have benefited
fromsmall,cheap,high-resolution CC Dcamerasandcompact,reliablemotordrives. MEMS
(micro-electromechanicalsystems)technologyhassuppliedminiaturizedaccelerometers,gy-
roscopes, and actuators for an artificial flying insect (Floreano et al., 2009). It may also be
possible tocombinemillionsof MEM Sdevicestoproduce powerfulmacroscopic actuators.
Thus, we see that AI systems are at the cusp of moving from primarily software-only
systems to embedded robotic systems. The state of robotics today is roughly comparable to
the state of personal computers in about 1980: at that time researchers and hobbyists could
experimentwith PCs,butitwouldtakeanotherdecadebefore theybecamecommonplace.
Keepingtrack of thestate of the world: This is one of the core capabilities required
foran intelligent agent. It requires both perception and updating of internal representations.
Chapter 4 showed how to keep track of atomic state representations; Chapter 7 described
how to do it for factored (propositional) state representations; Chapter 12 extended this to
first-orderlogic;and Chapter15described filteringalgorithms forprobabilistic reasoning in
uncertainenvironments. Currentfilteringandperception algorithmscanbecombinedtodoa
reasonable job of reporting low-level predicates such as the cup is on the table. Detecting
higher-level actions, such as Dr. Russell is having a cup of t