 navigation [Krogh and Thorpe, 1986]. Road following is another navigational task that has received a great deal of attention: The object of road following is to steer a moving vehicle so that it stays centered on a road and avoids obstacles. Much of the problem comes in locating the edges of the road despite varying light, weather, and ground conditions. At present, this control task is feasible only for fairly slow-moving vehicles [Shafer and Whittaker, 1989]. Increases in speed demand more reactivity and thus more real-time computation. start Fig. 21.9 Constructing Configuration Space Obstacles 21.3.2 Manipulation Robots have found numerous applications in industrial settings. Robot manipulators are able to perform simple repetitive tasks, such as bolting and fitting automobile parts, but these robots are highly task-specific. It is a longstanding goal in robotics to build robots that can be programmed to carry out a wide variety of tasks. 440 Artificial Intelligence EERE NTE A manipulator is composed of a series of links and joints, usually terminating in an end-effector, which can take the form of a two-pronged gripper, a humanlike hand, or any of a variety of tools. One general manipulation problem is called pick-and-place, in which a robot must grasp an object and-move it to a specific location. For example, consider Fig. 21.10, where the goal is to place a peg in a hole. Fig. 21.10 A Pick-and-Place Task There are two main subtasks here. The first is to design a robot motion that ends with the object stably grasped between the two fingers of the robot. Clearly some form of path planning, as discussed above, can be used to move the arm toward the object, but we need to modify the technique when it comes to the fine motion involved in the grasp itself. Here, uncertainty is a critical problem. Even with the vision techniques of Section 21.2.1, a robot can never be sure of the precise location of the peg or the arm. Therefore it would be a mistake to plan a grasp