swerable. If al] of these variations are accounted for and the question can be answered, then the response is a red one. Q3: Since no answer to this question is contained in the text, no answer will be found. Comments This approach is clearly inadequate to answer the kinds of questions people could answer after reading a simple text. Even its ability to answer the most direct questions is delicately dependent on the exact form in which questions are stated and on the variations that were anticipated in the design of the templates and the pattern substitutions that the system uses. In fact, the sheer inadequacy of this program to perform the task may make you wonder how such an approach could even be proposed. This program is substantially farther away from being useful than was the initial program we looked at for tic-tac-toe. Is this just a strawman designed to make some other technique look good in comparison? In a way, yes, but it is worth mentioning that the approach that this program uses, namely matching patterns, performing simple text substitutions, and then forming answers using-straightforward combinations of canned text and sentence fragments located by the matcher, is the same approach that is used in one of the most famous AI programs ever written ELIZA, which we discuss in Section 6.4.3. But, as you read the rest of this sequence of programs, it should become clear that what we mean by the term artificial intelligence does not include programs such as this except by a substantial stretching of definitions. This program first converts the input text into a structured internal form that attempts to capture the meaning of the sentences. It also converts questions into that form. It finds answers by matching structured forms against each other. pe 14 Data Structures English Know Inpat Text Structured Text Artificial Intelligence A description of the words, grammar, and appropriate semantic interpretations of a large enough subset of English to account for 