roken. Figure 17.16 Three bulbs connected to a battery in parallel, with six wire components. To anyone with a basic knowledge of electrical circuits, it is immediately clear that both the bulbs B,and Bz must be broken. The reason is that wires and the battery must all be working because the bulb Bz is lit. However, working only with descriptions of working component models, GDE is unable to pinpoint this diagnosis, though it does identify it amongst many spurious ones. Struss and Dressler show that even with assuming that there is only one fault mode, a description of the component behaviour can help. In the general case, there could be many different ways that a component could fail in, and the task would be to identify what behaviour mode the component is. Other papers that have adopted similar approaches are (de Kleer and Williams, 1989), (Dvorak and Kuipers, 1989), (Hamscher, 1991), and (de Kleer and Brown, 1992). A comprehensive collection of papers is the Readings in Model Based Diagnosis edited by (Hamscher et al., 1992). We begin by examining how GDE diagnoses the problem. Let us model the components as constraints. We assume two modes for each component. One OK(C) that corresponds to Ab(C) in our earlier notation, and the other Broken(C) that corresponds to Ab(C). This notation allows us to identify the mode of fault, and we could have different modes Broken,(C), Broken2(C), ..., Broken-(C), if there were F different possible fault modes. With each fault mode, we would be expected to describe at least some aspects of the behaviour. GDE describes the behaviour only for the OK mode. Let us build a qualitative model in which the voltage values are from the quantity space -, 0, . When the battery S is working then the voltages at its two terminals are Voltage(T,) and Voltage(7 ) . For the sake of brevity, we will write these as T, and T -. Table 17.8The working bulb model Mode R Bulb OK - On OK - On OK - - Off OK - - Off OK 0 0 Off OK 0 Off OK 0 Off OK i 0 Off