ity using the information in Table 15.3 and inspect the fresh values. Witten-Bell Discounting The probability of unseen N-grams could be looked upon as things we saw once (for the first time), As we go through the corpus we do encounter new N-grams and finally are in a position to ascertain the number of unique N-grams. The event of encountering a new N-gram could be looked upon as a case of an (so far) unseen N-gram. This calls for computing the probability of an N-gram which has just been sighted. One may observe that the number of unique N-grams seen in the data is the same as the count, H, of the N-grams observed (so far) for the first time. Thus (N+H) would mean the sum of the words or tokens seen so far and the unique N-grams types in the corpus. The total probability mass of all such N-grams (occurring for the first time i.e. having zero probability) could be estimated by computing H(N+H). This value stands for the probability of a new type of N-gram being detected. H//N+H) is also the probability of unseen N-grams taken together. If / is the total number of N-grams that have never occurred so far (zero count), dividing the probability of unseen N-grams by J would distribute it equally among them. Thus the probability of an unseen N-gram could be written as PY = HII(N+H) Since the total probability has to be 1, this extra probability distributed amongst unseen N-grams has to be scooped or discounted from other regions in the probability distribution. The probability of the seen N-grams is therefore discounted to aid the generation of the extra probability requirement for the unseen ones as: P, = c,{(N+H) where c, is the (non-zero positive) count of k N-gram. 15.6 SPELL CHECKING A Spell Checker is one of the basic tools required for language processing. It is used in a wide variety of computing environments including word processing, character or text recognition systems, speech recognition 326 Artificial Intelligence and generation. Spell checking is one of t