onstraints need to be respected, and quality of generated text is important. Also, NLG systems have an advantage over humans, in that the texts generated by NLG systems are more consistent. Having said this, as with MT systems, many NLG systems may involve a final step of manual post-edit. The traditional approach to NLG involves the following steps: 1. Document Planning (also referred to as Macroplanning) In this step, the NLG system identifies the content based on the communication goal and knowledge sources at its disposal. A text plan is then worked out, which organizes this content in a structured way. Often the plan is represented as a tree, with the leaves representing textual units like sentences. The nodes and edges of the tree are given interpretation according to the Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) (Mann et al., 1987), which defines relations between units of text. For example, the relation cause connects the two sentences The hotel was costly. and We started looking for a cheaper option . Other such relations are purpose, motivation and enablement. The text is organized into two segments; the first is called a nucleus, which carries the most important information, and the second satellites, which provide a flesh around the nucleus. The way a document plan is organized using rhetorical relations is illustrated in the example shown in Figure 16.16. 2. Microplanning The step aims at grouping the information into small units that can be mapped onto sentences. This, in turn, involves three main substeps. The first is generation of referring expressions. A decision needs to be made, for example, whether we should refer to Barack Obama as the US president or Mr. Obama or using the pronoun he instead. The second component of microplanning is sentence aggregation. Consider the sentences The hotel was located close to the conference venue. The staff was cordial. The hotel was expensive. Aggregation combines these sentences into one sentence: The hotel was locate