so does the flow. To maintain a constant flow (6Q 0), one has to increase the pressure drop, if the area available decreases. In general, a confluence is satisfied if the constituent variables have values consistent with the confluence. The way the regulator works is that as the pressure increases, the flow does too, which in turn pushes the piston down constricting the area, which in turn reduces the flow and the output pressure. IN OUT Pe) Figure 17.6 A hydraulic pressure regulator. (Figure adapted from (de Kleer and Brown, 1984)). The above confluence describes the behaviour only in a qualitative, operational state which we can call the working state of the valve. The confluence is not applicable if the valve is either closed or (fully) open. In the former case, no flow takes place and both Q and 6Q are zero. The input pressure can take any unconstrained value but does not cause a change in the pressure drop. In the latter case, if the valve is fully open the pressure drop across the value is 0, and cannot change as well. These are different operational states of the valve behaviour and are captured by different sets of confluences. Each state is characterized by a relation on one or more variables, shown in square brackets below. The variables may not be derivatives and the allowed relations are , , , 2, . A more accurate model then is, State: open, 4 Ana Confluences: P 0, 5P 0 State: working, 0 4 4,,x Confluences: 5P 64 - 60 0 State: closed, A 0 Confluences: Q 0, 6O 0 If one wants to allow for the possibility of bidirectional flow across the valve, one must take into account the fact that the pressure drop moves towards zero when the valve opens up with flow in either direction. One could replace the term 6A with PJ6A to take care of the signs. Equivalently, a pure set of confluences is, State: open, 4 4,,,. Confluences: P 0, 6P 0 State: working , 0 4 Ajgx.P 0 Confluences: P Q , dP 64 -50 0 State: working , 0 4 Ayax,P 0 Confluences: P Q , 6P- 60 0 State: workin