ompound sentence consists of two or more independent clauses connected by a conjunction or a semicolon. A complex sentence consists of an independent clause and one or more dependent clauses. Sentences are used to assert, query, and describe. The way a sentence is used determines its mood, declarative, imperative, interrogative, or exclamatory. A word functions in a sentence as a part of speech. Parts of speech for the English language are nouns, pronouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, prepositions, conjunctions,, and interjections. - A noun is a name for something (person. place, or thing). Pronouns replace nouns when the noun is already known. Verbs express action, being, or state of being. Adjectives are used to modify nouns and pronouns, and adverbs modify verbs, adjectives, or other adverbs. Prepositions establish the relationship between Sec. 12.2 Overview of Linguistics 229 a noun and some other part of the Sentence. Conjunctions join words or groups of words together, and interjections are used to express strong feelings apart from the rest of the sentence. Phrases are made up of words but act as a single unit within a sentence. These form the building blocks for the syntactic structures we consider later. Levels of Knowledge Used in Language Understanding A language understanding program must have considerable knowledge about the structure of the language including what the words are and how they combine into phrases and sentences. It must also know the meanings of the words and howthey contribute to the meanings of a sentence and to the context within which they are being used. Finally, a program must have some general world knowledge as well as knowledge of what humans know and how they reason. To carry on a conversation with someone requires that a person (or program) know about the world in general, know what other people know, and know the facts pertaining to a particular conversational setting. This all presumes a familiarity with the language structure