nt like applications. Current successful applications in CBR employ a uniform case structure along with a similarity measure to determine the best matching cases. Each application stands alone with its own representation schema. The idea of a more cognitive agent using memory and learning from experiences has gone onto the backburner. An agent with a diverse memory comprising different kinds of cases of various size and constituents would need a different approach for retrieval. Perhaps the idea of reminding in a dynamic memory using conceptual and linguistic cues as indices pointing to the relevant cases will come back. It only awaits further advances in knowledge representation. 15.4.1 Further Reading Case based reasoning emerged from the work on knowledge structures in memory. A host of programs that employed knowledge structures to understand stories in natural language were being developed. The idea of cases as memories of specific episodes that an agent remembers and reuses, led to the idea of CBR as a memory of past instances. The earliest books that expounded this theme were the books by Roger Schank and Chris Riesbeck (Riesbeck and Schank, 1989), and Janet Kolodner (1993). Chris Hammond s doctoral thesis on CHEF, the case based planner explains the notions of revision, adaptation and retaining cases (Hammond, 1986; 1989). A paper by Aamodt and Plaza (1994) appeared just when the simple problem solving approach of remembering and reusing was gaining strength. A collection of essays compiled by David Leake (1996) delved into the theoretical foundations. Two books by lan Watson (1997, 2002) gathered the vast number of industrial applications on knowledge management. A collection of articles (Lenz et al., 1998) describes some of the advanced topics in CBR. Researchers in German universities devised a software engineering methodology, INRECA, that treated the process as an experience factory (Bergmann et al., 1999). Ralph Bergmann s post-doctoral thesis (Bergman