 Start Sp: on(A, B), on(C, D), AE, clear(A), clear(B), clear(E) Goalg: on(4, D) Construct a planning graph of two action layers (PO, A1, P1, A2, P2) 12. Write the logical bit-level operation that algorithm STAN would do to decide the applicability of an action in a given layer. (Hint: What would it mean to check whether an action is mutex with itself?) 13. Given the planning graph of Figure 10.4 and the goals On(A, C), OnT(C) , trace the plan extraction process when the problem is posed as a dynamic CSP. The domains of the variables and the constraints between them may be defined as and when they become active. 14. What is a relaxed planning problem? Illustrate with the blocks world domain. Where is it used? 15. Pose the following problem as a planning problem. Find a contingent plan for the problem. You are sitting blindfolded and in front of you there is a square horizontal board that can be rotated about the vertical axis passing through the centre. For simplicity, we assume that rotations are in multiples of 90 . Placed on the four corners are four identical objects that can be in one of two states, up or down. You can reach out to any two corners with your hands and can sense whether the two are on a side or a diagonal, and you can sense the state of each object on the two corners. You play a game in which the following moves happen alternately. An adversary rotates the board by some amount. You are allowed to sense any two objects, and change the state of both, one or none of them. The goal is to bring all four objects in the same state (up or down). If you succeed, a judge rings a bell. 16. Find a conformant plan28 for the above problem. What can you say about the lengths of the two plans, contingent and conformant? 17. Extend the planning graphs of Figure 10.12 for a domain with two toilets t1 and t2, which are not clogged in the given state. Show that a conformant solution for the bomb diffusing problem can be found by CGP. 18. Extend the matching diagram o