g that belongs to a type of thing called a species . It is an element or term here, a reified term, which belongs to the class species . This is similar to the fact that Clyde in the first sentence is a term that belongs to the class elephant . This means in some situations we have to treat a class (elephant) as a term which belongs to a higher level class. Linguistically, the use of the indefinite article a gives us a clue that we should utilize. We can then thing of water too as a term which belongs to a class of fluids, and which has properties like taking the shape of the container, and something one can splash around in. In this chapter, we have focused on variables and categories in an abstract sense. There is another aspect to knowledge representation, one that is concerned with efficiency, called concrete representation in (Charniak and McDermott, 1985). This is concerned with how one accesses the related knowledge without having to scan and unify a flat representation. It is concerned with the issue of designing structures for rapid access, so that reasoning does not have to rely on having to search for all the links that are needed in an argument. We will look at scripts, structures of goals and plans, and notion of ontologies and descriptions logics in more, detail in the: following chapter. wo - n N so N Exercises . Convert the following definitions into Horn clause (logic programs). (a) Vx(Mother(x) 3 y Mother(x, y)) (b) Wx(PrimeNumber(x) 73 y(y l A y x A Divides(y, x))) (c) Wxvy (GrandParent(x, y) 3z (Parent(x, z) A Parent(z, y))) (d) WxVy (Mother(x, y) (Parent(x, y) a Female(x))) (e) Vxvy (Ancestor(x, y) (Parent(x, y) V 3z (Parent(x, z) A Ancestor(z, y))) Create a FOL representation scheme for describing the entities that are relevant to a University environment, like courses, people, departments, programs and so on, and relations between them. Rephrase the information in the form of RDF triples. . Define the category of natural numbers, NN(x) is true