.3 depicts graphically some additional concepts not expressed in Figure 7.1. A number of arc relations have become common among users. They include such predicates as ISA, MEMBER-OF, SUBSET-OF, AKO (a-kind-of). HASState policies BUDGET ',, University \ IS A In,settiute systen ) ( Hir Leer noifng U.T.\ Austin I ..X El Peso College of .iee Engin1ng_ CD E. /Contputer Science \ LOCATION f Enqineering department building IS A Bob MARRIED TOO OWNSDRIVES Sandy House Buick Flvun 7.3 Associative network node and are types. I U.- 130 Structured Knowledge: Graphs. Frames, and Related Structures Chap. 7 PARTS, INSTANCE-OF, AGENT. ATTRIBUTES, SHAPED-LIKE, and so forth. Less common arcs have also been used to express modality relations (time, manner. mood), linguistics case relations (theme, source, goal), logical connectives (Or. not, and, implies). quantifiers (all, some), set relations (superset, subset, member), attributes, and quantification (ordinal, count). One particular arc or link, the ISA (is a) link, has taken on a special meaning. It signities that Bob is a professor and that the state university system is an institute o I.higher learning. ISA relationships occur in many representations of worlds: Bill is a student, a cat is a furry animal, a tree is a plant, and so on, The ISA link is most often used to represent the fact that an object is of a certain type (predication) or to express the fact that one type is a subtype of another (for example, conditional quantification). Brachman (1979. 1983) has given an interesting des ription of the background and uses of this now famous link. For example, the ISA predicate has been used to exhibit the following types of structures: GENERIC-GENERIC RELATIONSHIPS Subset-Superset (fighting ships-battleships) Generalization-Specialization (restaurant-fast-foods) AKO (an elephant is a kind of mammal) Conceptual containment (a triangle is a polygon) Sets and their type (an elephant and a set of elephants) Role value restrictions (an