executinganaction,theagentverifiesthattheremainingplan
PLANMONITORING
willstillsucceed. Goalmonitoring: beforeexecutinganaction,theagentcheckstoseeifthereisabetter
GOALMONITORING
setofgoalsitcouldbetryingtoachieve.
In Figure 11.9 we see a schematic of action monitoring. The agent keeps track of both its
original plan, wholeplan, and the part of the plan that has not been executed yet, which is
denoted by plan. After executing the first few steps of the plan, the agent expects to be in
state E. But the agent observes it is actually in state O. It then needs to repair the plan by
findingsomepoint P ontheoriginalplanthatitcangetbackto. (Itmaybethat P isthegoal
state,G.) Theagenttriestominimizethetotalcostoftheplan: therepairpart(from Oto P)
plusthecontinuation (from P to G).
424 Chapter 11. Planningand Actinginthe Real World
Now let s return to the example problem of achieving a chair and table of matching
color. Supposetheagentcomesupwiththisplan: Look At(Table),Look At(Chair),
if Color(Table,c) Color(Chair,c)then No Op
else Remove Lid(Can ),Look At(Can ),
1 1
if Color(Table,c) Color(Can ,c)then Paint(Chair,Can )
1 1
else REPLAN .
Now the agent is ready to execute the plan. Suppose the agent observes that the table and
can of paint are white and the chair is black. It then executes Paint(Chair,Can ). At this
1
point a classical planner would declare victory; the plan has been executed. But an online
execution monitoring agent needs tocheck thepreconditions ofthe remaining emptyplan that the table and chair are the same color. Suppose the agent perceives that they do not
have the same color in fact, the chair is now a mottled gray because the black paint is
showing through. The agent then needs to figure out a position in whole plan to aim for
and arepair action sequence toget there. Theagent notices thatthe current state isidentical
to the precondition before the Paint(Chair,Can ) action, so the agent chooses the empty
1
sequence for repair and makes its plan be thesa