with at least one other neighboring object sphere. Show how such a scheme could be used to partition the attribute space into subspace with nonlinear boundaries. 13.10. Define an alphabet of shape primitives for a syntactic recognition grammar which 284 Pattern Recognition Chap. 13 can be used to recognize the integer characters 0. I, 2. 3, 4, 5, 6. 7, 8, and 9. Check to see that the resultant character strings for each character are unique. 13.11. Give two examples where the single representation trick simplifies ctustering among Unknown objects. 13.12. Compute the number of ways five objects can be arranged into I. 2, 3. and 4 groups. From this, try to develop an inductive proof of arranging n objects into m groups. 13.13. Read 'High Level Knowledge Sources in Usable Speech Recognition Systems' by Sheryl Young. Alexander Hauptmann, Wayne Ward, Edward Smith, and Philip Werner. in Communications of the ACM, Vol. 32, Number 2, Feb., 1989. Summarize some of the more complicated problems associated with general speech recognition. IA I'-F Visual Image Understanding Vision is perhaps the most remarkable of all of our intelligent sensing capabilities. Through our visual system, we are able to acquire information about our environment without direct contact. Vision permits us to acquire information at a phenomenal rate and at resolutions that are most impressive. For example, one only needs to compare the resolution of a TV camera system to that of a human to see the difference. Roughly speaking, a TV camera has a resolution on the order of 500 parts per square cm, while the human eye has a limiting resolution on the order of some 25 X 106 parts per square cm. Thus, humans have a visual resolution several orders of magnitude better (more than 10,000 times finer) than that of a TV camera. What is even more remarkable is the ease with which we humans sense and perceive a variety of visual images. It is so effortless, we are seldom consciou a of the act. In this chapter, we 