 that stable expansion we have the belief that Chat(aditi, shubhagata) is true. 17.2 Qualitative Reasoning Many scientific and engineering applications require us to model and reason about the real world. This reasoning happens in the domain of numerical or quantitative data and quantitative relations on the data. The world is abstracted into a set of variables, and some kind of a model incorporates the relations between the different variables. For example, the motion of a physical body could be represented by treating it as a point object and defining variables to represent its location, velocity, and acceleration. The speed can be related to a location by a differential equation, as can acceleration be related to speed. Other kinds of models that have been used are finite element analysis, neural networks, constraint systems, linear equations, and so on. Such quantitative models are an abstraction of the domain. They distill key features of the domain and represent them as mathematical models. Since they are abstractions, they necessarily ignore some aspects of the real world, but this loss of detail is compensated for by being able to reason quickly. Abstraction in any case is inevitable. The degree to which it is done is dictated by the task at hand, the capabilities of the reasoner, and the domain. Newton s Laws of Motion were quite adequate for our day to day reasoning but, as Einstein showed with his Theory of Relativity, are too abstract to deal with motion at very high speeds. Qualitative models are further abstractions in which one abstracts away from numerical data. Instead of using Hooke s Law for computation, one can express the fact that the force exerted by a spring increases as it is stretched away from its normal position. Qualitative Reasoning is also known as Qualitative Physics or Naive Physics because it has often been used to model physical systems. This is an attempt to replicate the way people model the everyday world and reason about it ver