atcanbeexecutedwithoutdeliberation togeneratetherequired motorcontrolsequences.
In this example, we see that planning can occur both before and during the execution
of the plan; for example, one would probably defer the problem of planning a route from a
parking spot in long-term parking to the shuttle bus stop until a particular parking spot has
been found during execution. Thus, that particular action will remain at an abstract level
prior to the execution phase. We defer discussion of this topic until Section 11.3. Here, we
HIERARCHICAL concentrate on the aspect of hierarchical decomposition, an idea that pervades almost all
DECOMPOSITION
attempts to manage complexity. Forexample, complex software is created from a hierarchy
ofsubroutines orobjectclasses;armiesoperateasahierarchyofunits;governmentsandcor-
porations have hierarchies of departments, subsidiaries, and branch offices. The key benefit
of hierarchical structure is that, at each level of the hierarchy, a computational task, military
mission,oradministrativefunctionisreducedtoasmallnumberofactivitiesatthenextlower
level, so the computational cost of finding the correct way to arrange those activities for the
current problem is small. Nonhierarchical methods, on the other hand, reduce a task to a
largenumberofindividual actions; forlarge-scale problems,thisiscompletely impractical.
11.2.1 High-levelactions
Thebasicformalismweadopttounderstandhierarchicaldecompositioncomesfromthearea
HIERARCHICALTASK of hierarchical task networksor HT Nplanning. Asin classical planning (Chapter 10), we
NETWORK
assumefullobservability anddeterminism andtheavailability ofasetofactions, nowcalled
primitiveactions,withstandardprecondition effect schemas. Thekeyadditional conceptis
PRIMITIVEACTION
the high-levelaction or HLA forexample, theaction Goto San Francisco airport inthe
HIGH-LEVELACTION
Section11.2. Hierarchical Planning 407
Refinement(Go(Home,SFO),
STEPS: Drive(Home,SFO Long Term Parking),
Shuttle(SFO Long Term Parkin