 pioneers of the rationalist school of thought, proclaims that language cannot be learnt from data, and that most of language is innate to humans. This line of thinking has been popularized more recently by Steven Pinker, who in his book The Language Instinct maintains that humans do not learn any more language from corpuses, than birds learn flying by statistically analysing patterns of flights of other birds. 16.2 Basic NLP Techniques 16.2.1 A Spelling Checker Perhaps the most common application that we can think about at a word morphology level is that of detecting and correcting spelling errors. Once a spelling error is detected using a standard dictionary, the system needs to suggest candidate corrections. A simplistic strategy would be to just compare the number of letters in common between the misspelt word and each of the candidates. However, the limitation of this approach is that it fails to take into account the order of letters. Thus, WRONG and GONER are treated as equally likely replacements for the misspelt word GONIR . This limitation can be overcome by considering sequences of two letters (bigrams) or sequences of three letters (trigrams) as basic building blocks of a word. For example, the bigrams and trigrams of the word GONER are GO ,,ON , NE ,,ER and GON , ONE , NER respectively. A simple measure of a trigram based similarity between strings A and B is as follows: nA. By grata) 0 trigram(B) sim(A, B) trigram(A) VU trigram(B) Here, trigram(S) refers to the set of trigrams in the string S. In the example above, trigram( WRONG ) WRO , RON , ONG trigram( GONER ) GON , ONE , NER trigram( GONIR ) GON , ONT , NIR Thus, sim( WRONG , GONER ) 0 sim( GONER , GONIR ) 0.20 It may be noted that because of their simplicity, n-gram based approaches, of which the bigram and trigram are special cases, have been used in various practical applications that need fast string matching. Despite being simple and easy to use, the n-gram approaches suffer from the limitati