m duration of the action. The other temporal constraints are introduced by the planning process, based on preconditions and effects, and the mutex relations. A STN is consistent, if there is no cycle with total negative sum of weights. CRIKEY3 uses an alternative representation of state, and employs only one STN for the entire plan. A node in its search space is a triple S F, E, T where F is a state described by the set of fluents (including both propositions that are true and values of metric fluents), E is an ordered list of events recording actions that have been started in F but not ended, and T is the set of temporal constraints over the partial plan that has been constructed so far, forming the STN. Each entry ecE is a tuple op, i, dmin, dmax made up of four elements where, op is the identifier of the associated start snap action a,, jis the index of the above action in the plan being constructed, and dmin and dmax are respectively the minimum and maximum duration of the associated durative action. If the duration is static then the two values will be equal, but if the duration is dynamic, then the bounds are determined during planning. CRIKEY3 does FF like forward state space search over the snap actions. An action a (it could be a start action or an end action) is applicable in a state S F, E, T if, F satisfies the preconditions of the action a. Action a does not delete any overall conditions of the actions present in E. When the action applied is a start action then a new element is added to E, along with changes in F that are the effects of the action to give us a successor state F , E , T . When an end action is applied, there may be more than one start action it could be paired with. This results in more than one possible successor state, along with an appropriate temporal constraint on the duration of the composed action. CRIKEY3 can also handle Timed Initial Literals (TIL) which are fluents that are controlled by the external environment becoming true 