veredlater in
thechapter. Each linkindicatesthatthe lowerconceptisa specializationof the upperone.
Specializations are not necessarily disjoint; a human is both an animal and an agent, for
example.Wewillseein Section12.3.3whyphysicalobjectscomeundergeneralizedevents.
use these to define more specific concepts like Spreadsheet Window. The general framework
of concepts is called an upper ontology because of the convention of drawing graphs with
UPPERONTOLOGY
thegeneralconceptsatthetopandthemorespecificconcepts belowthem,asin Figure12.1.
Before considering the ontology further, we should state one important caveat. We
have elected to use first-order logic to discuss the content and organization of knowledge,
althoughcertainaspectsoftherealworldarehardtocapturein FOL.Theprincipaldifficulty
isthatmostgeneralizations haveexceptions orholdonly to adegree. Forexample, although tomatoes are red is a useful rule, some tomatoes are green, yellow, or orange. Similar
exceptionscanbefoundtoalmostalltherulesinthischapter. Theabilitytohandleexceptions
and uncertainty is extremely important, but is orthogonal to the task of understanding the
generalontology. Forthisreason,wedelaythediscussionofexceptionsuntil Section12.5of
thischapter, andthemoregeneraltopicofreasoning withuncertainty until Chapter13.
Ofwhat use is an upper ontology? Consider the ontology for circuits in Section 8.4.2.
Itmakesmanysimplifyingassumptions: timeisomittedcompletely; signalsarefixedanddo
not propagate; the structure of the circuit remains constant. Amore general ontology would
consider signals at particular times, and would include the wire lengths and propagation de-
lays. This would allow us to simulate the timing properties of the circuit, and indeed such
simulations are often carried out by circuit designers. We could also introduce more inter-
esting classes of gates, for example, by describing the technology (TTL,CMOS,and so on)
aswellastheinput output specification. Ifwewantedtodiscuss reliability 