(RM5) | | phrases) that will correspond to meaning units when init file semantic analysis is performed. One useful thing we have Fig.15.2 The Result of Syntactic Analysis of I want done here, although not alt syntactic systems do, is create to print Bill's .init file. a set of entities we call reference markers. They are shown in parentheses in the parse tree. Each one corresponds to some entity that has been mentioned in the sentence. These reference markers are useful later since they Natural Language Processing 289 provide a place in which to accumulate information about the entities as we get it. Thus although we have not tried to do semantic analysis (i.e., assign meaning) at this point, we have designed our syntactic analysis process so that it will find constituents to which meaning can be assigned. Semantic Analysis Semantic analysis must do two important things: e It must map individual words into appropriate objects in the knowledge base or database. It must create the correct structures to correspond to the way the meanings of the individual words combine with each other. For this example, suppose that we have a frame-based knowledge base that contains the units shown in Fig. 15.3. Then we can generate a partial meaning, with respect to that knowledge base, as shown in Fig. 15.4. Reference marker RM/ corresponds to the top-level event of the sentence. It is a wanting event in which the speaker (denoted by I ) wants a printing event to occur in which the same speaker prints a file whose extension is .init and whose owner is Bill. User isa: Person *login-name: must be <string> User068 instance : User login-name : Susan-Black User073 instance : User fegin-name : Bill-Smith FY instance : File-Struct name: stuff extension : init owner: User073 in-directory : /wsmith/ File-Struct isa: information-Object Printing isa: Physical-Event * agent: must be <animate or program> * object : must be <information-object> Wanting isa: Menial-Event * agent: must be <animate> 