lly more successful than a
sloweractiontakenaftercarefuldeliberation.
Alltheskillsneededforthe Turing Testalsoallowanagenttoactrationally. Knowledge
representation and reasoning enable agents to reach good decisions. We need to be able to
generate comprehensible sentences in natural language to get by in a complex society. We
need learning not only for erudition, but also because it improves our ability to generate
effectivebehavior.
The rational-agent approach has two advantages over the other approaches. First, it
is more general than the laws of thought approach because correct inference is just one
of several possible mechanisms for achieving rationality. Second, it is more amenable to
Section1.2. The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence 5
scientificdevelopmentthanareapproaches basedonhumanbehaviororhumanthought. The
standard of rationality is mathematically well defined and completely general, and can be unpacked togenerateagentdesignsthatprovablyachieve it. Humanbehavior, ontheother
hand, is well adapted for one specific environment and is defined by, well, the sum total
of all the things that humans do. This book therefore concentrates on general principles
of rational agents and on components for constructing them. We will see that despite the
apparent simplicity with which the problem can be stated, an enormous variety of issues
comeupwhenwetrytosolveit. Chapter2outlines someoftheseissuesinmoredetail.
Oneimportantpointtokeepinmind: Wewillseebeforetoolongthatachievingperfect
rationality always doing the right thing is notfeasible in complicated environments. The
computational demands are just too high. Formost of the book, however, we will adopt the
working hypothesis that perfect rationality isa good starting point foranalysis. It simplifies
the problem and provides the appropriate setting for most of the foundational material in
LIMITED the field. Chapters 5 and 17 deal explicitly with the issue of limited rationality acting
RATIONALITY
appropriately whe