en considered an intractable problem in the
tracking community. The algorithm itself was published by Kuhn (1955), based on transla-
tions ofpapers published in1931 bytwo Hungarian mathematicians, De nes Ko nig and Jeno Egerva ry. Thebasic theorem hadbeen derived previously, however, inanunpublished Latin
manuscript bythefamous Prussianmathematician Carl Gustav Jacobi(1804 1851).
EXERCISES
15.1 Show that any second-order Markov process can be rewritten as a first-order Markov
process with an augmented set of state variables. Can this always be done parsimoniously,
i.e.,withoutincreasingthenumberofparametersneededtospecifythetransitionmodel?
15.2 In this exercise, we examine what happens to the probabilities in the umbrella world
inthelimitoflongtimesequences.
a. Suppose we observe an unending sequence of days on which the umbrella appears.
Showthat,asthedaysgoby,theprobability ofrainonthecurrentdayincreases mono-
tonicallytowardafixedpoint. Calculatethisfixedpoint.
b. Now consider forecasting further and further into the future, given just the first two
umbrella observations. First, compute the probability P(r u ,u ) for k 1...20
2 k 1 2
andplottheresults. Youshouldseethattheprobabilityconvergestowardsafixedpoint.
Provethattheexactvalueofthisfixedpointis0.5.
15.3 This exercise develops a space-efficient variant of the forward backward algorithm
described in Figure 15.4 (page 576). We wish to compute P(X e ) for k 1,...,t. This
k 1:t
willbedonewithadivide-and-conquer approach.
a. Suppose,forsimplicity, thattisodd,andletthehalfwaypointbeh (t 1) 2. Show
that P(X e )canbecomputedfork 1,...,hgivenjusttheinitialforwardmessage
k 1:t
f ,thebackward messageb ,andtheevidence e .
1:0 h 1:t 1:h
b. Showasimilarresultforthesecondhalfofthesequence.
Exercises 607
c. Given the results of (a) and (b), a recursive divide-and-conquer algorithm can be con-
structed by first running forward along the sequence and then backward from the end,
storing just the required messages at the middl