, sed 13. -(s s) sed 14. (p r a r s) D (p s) PE AV Ap , red, se AULA The clauses in set 1 are a kind of closure axioms which say that the only actions are the one mentioned in the set A. The second set says that each step is unique and distinct. The third clause says that the initial action only produces the propositions in the start state and nothing else, and the fourth axiom states that in a successful plan, the goal propositions are needed by the final action. The sets of clauses 5, 6 and 7 define the relations Adds, Dels and Needs, between propositions and corresponding actions. The clauses in set 8 say that whenever a proposition is needed by an action, there should be a causal link in which that proposition is produced. The set 9 says that every causal link CausalLinki (p, , s) implies the relation Adds(p, ). Ten says that if action ris a threat to the above causal link, then it must either happen before p or after s. Clauses 11 and 12 place the initial and the final action at the two ends, clause 13 says that an action cannot be in a ordering relation with itself, and clause 14 says that the ordering relation between actions is transitive. The SAT encoding above uses ground instances of fluents and actions. It is possible to arrive at a lifted encoding in which variables are used for fluents and actions, which has a smaller number of clauses. The interested reader is referred to (Kautz et al., 1996). 10.4 Heuristic Search In Chapter 7, we briefly looked at the idea of doing state space search for planning. In Chapter 3, we have looked at the idea of using heuristic functions to guide search. The heuristic functions we described there were static, in the sense that they derived a distance estimate by looking at the current state and the goal state. These functions were domain dependent and the user was expected to define them. More recently, the idea of doing some analysis in a domain independent fashion has emerged. The idea is that for problems which are in