oget there. Theagent notices thatthe current state isidentical
to the precondition before the Paint(Chair,Can ) action, so the agent chooses the empty
1
sequence for repair and makes its plan be thesame Paint sequence that it just attempted.
With this new plan in place, execution monitoring resumes, and the Paint action is retried.
Thisbehavior willloop until thechairisperceived tobecompletely painted. Butnotice that
the loop is created by a process of plan execute replan, rather than by an explicit loop in a
plan. Notealso that the original plan need notcoverevery contingency. Ifthe agent reaches
thestepmarked REPLAN,itcanthengenerate anewplan(perhaps involving Can
2
).
Action monitoring is a simple method of execution monitoring, but it can sometimes
lead to less than intelligent behavior. Forexample, suppose there is no black orwhite paint,
and the agent constructs a plan to solve the painting problem by painting both the chair and
table red. Suppose that there isonly enough red paint forthe chair. With action monitoring,
theagentwouldgoaheadandpaintthechairred,thennoticethatitisoutofpaintandcannot
paintthetable,atwhichpointitwouldreplanarepair perhaps paintingbothchairandtable
green. Aplan-monitoring agent candetect failure whenever the current state issuch that the
remaining plan no longer works. Thus, it would not waste time painting the chair red. Plan
monitoring achieves this by checking the preconditions for success of the entire remaining
plan that is, the preconditions of each step in the plan, except those preconditions that are
achieved by another step in the remaining plan. Plan monitoring cuts off execution of a
doomed plan as soon as possible, rather than continuing until the failure actually occurs.4
Plan monitoring also allows for serendipity accidental success. If someone comes along
andpaintsthetableredatthesametimethattheagentispaintingthechairred,thenthefinal
planpreconditionsaresatisfied(thegoalhasbeenachieved),andtheagentcangohomeearly.
It is