 ae 1H i Fy Gent @@e ta GAT tt * te Fig. 14.7 A Speech Waveform In image-understanding problems as well, a similar problem involving local indeterminacy arises. Consider the situation shown in Fig. 14.8. At this point, lines have been extracted from the original figure and the next task is to separate the figure into objects. But suppose we start at the left and identify the object labeled A. Does it end at the vertical line? It is not possible to tell without looking past the vertical object to see if there is an extension, which, in this case, there is. Noise in the Input nhin haw ole uv viw ey El = ESGHT LE TGHY a te TOES ITER Wee a eee danse neo he oe ecw eed aa pe fox ws wo wo ' i ' tid ede aeday i 1 I i. 4 ood 82 ps Fig. 14.8 A Line Drawing with Local Ambiguity Understanding is the process of interpreting an input and assigning it meaning. Unfortunately, in many understanding situations the input to which meaning should be assigned is not always the input that is presented to the understander. Because of the complex environment in which understanding usually occurs, other things often interfere with the basic input before it reaches the understander. In perceptual tasks, such as speech and 278 Artificial intelligence ETC image understanding, this problem is common. We rarely have the opportunity to listen to each other against a background of silence. Thus we must take an input signal and separate the speech component from the background noise component in order to understand the speech. The same problem occurs in image understanding. If you look out of your car window in search of a particular store sign, the image you will see of the sign may be interfered with by many things, such as your windshield wipers or the trees alongside the road. Although typed language is less susceptible to noise than is spoken language, noise is still a problem. For example, typing errors are common, particularly if language is being used interactively to communicate with a comp