 we have solved the knowledge representation problem. As we have seen, the juggernaut of Al has been lurching along. Quite like the search methods Al algorithms embody, Al research has also been exploring various avenues in search of the keys to building an intelligent system. On the way, there have been some dead ends, but there have been equally, if not more, stories of achievement and progress. And on the way, many interesting and useful applications have been developed. Are these systems intelligent? Will we achieve artificial intelligence? Perhaps we can keep that question on the backburner for some more time. And, as Shakespeare said?, What's in a name? that which we call a rose By any other name would smell as sweet; Nevertheless, the question of what is intelligence is an intriguing one. In the following section, we take a fundamental look at this question, keeping in mind that one of the goals of artificial intelligence research is to implement programs that take us closer to achieving it. 1.3 What is Intelligence? Everyone has an intuitive notion of intelligence. But at the same time, intelligence has eluded definitions. We often try to define it by certain functionalities, which one might associate with the competition to survive. The ability to perceive the world around us, to procure food for satisfying one s hunger, to pick a spot of shade to avoid the sun in the tropics, or a spot of warm sun in a cooler climate, to sense danger and flee, or fight if escape is not possible, are surely characteristics of intelligent behaviour. Who would ever call something intelligent if it kept standing in the sweltering sun, eschewing the shelter of a nearby tree? But that is perhaps not all there is to intelligence, for if it were then cats and deer and lions would be intelligent too. They are, in this sense and to this extent, intelligent. But intelligence, as we want to define or recognize, must include something more. There is the ability to reason, do arithmetic