's return to the puzzle of the four colored blocks. To solve the problem, we first need to define a heuristic function that describes how close a particular configuration is to being a solution, One such function is simply the sum of the number of different colors on each of the four sides. A solution to the puzzle will have a value of 16. Next we need to define a set of rules that describe ways of transforming one configuration into another. Actually, one rule will suffice. It says simply pick a-block and ? What we are calling the heuristic function is sometimes also called the objective function, particularly in the literature of mathematical optimization. Heuristic Search Techniques 53 cna en Rye NEP ASSEN SOMOS rotate it 90 degrees in any direction. Having provided these definitions, the next step is to generate a starting configuration. This can either be done at random or with the aid of the heuristic function described in the last section. Now hill climbing can begin. We generate a new state by selecting a block and rotating it. If the resulting state is better, then we keep it. If not, we return to the previous state and try a different perturbation. 3.2.2 Steepest-Ascent Hill Climbing A useful variation on simple hill climbing considers all the moves from the current state and selects the best one as the next state. This method is called steepest-ascent hill climbing or gradient search, Notice that this contrasts with the basic method in which the first state that is better than the current state is selected. The algorithm works as follows. Algorithm: Steepest-Ascent Hill Climbing 1. Evaluate the initial state. If it is also a goal state, then return it and quit. Otherwise, continue with the initial state as the current state. 2. Loop until a solution is found or until a complete iteration produces no change to current state: (a) Let SUCC be a state such that any possible successor of the current state will be better than SUCC. (b) For each operator that ap