abut the next block. Using this heuristic, many configurations need never be explored and a solution can be found quite quickly. Unfortunately, for problems much harder than this, even heuristic generate-and-test, all by itself, is not a very effective technique. But when combined with other techniques to restrict the space in which to search even further, the technique can be very effective. For example, one early example of a successful AI program is DENDRAL [Lindsay et al., 1980], which infers the structure of organic compounds using mass spectrogram and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) dara. It uses a strategy called plan-generate-test in which a planning process that uses constraint-satisfaction techniques (see Section 3.5) creates lists of recommended and contraindicated substructures. The generateand-test procedure then uses those lists so that it can explore only a fairly limited set of structures. Constrained in this way, the generate-and-test procedure has proved highly effective. This combination of planning, using one problem-solving method (in this case, constraint satisfaction) with the use of the plan by another problem-solving method, generate-and-test, is an excellent example of the way techniques can be combined to overcome the limitations that each possesses individually. A major weakness of planning is that it often produces somewhat inaccurate solutions since there is no feedback from the world. But by using it only to produce pieces of solutions that will then be exploited in the generate-and-test process, the lack of detailed accuracy becomes unimportant. And, at the same time, the combinatorial problems that arise in simple generate-and-test are avoided by judicious reference to the plans. ' Or, as another story goes, if a sufficient number of monkeys were placed in front of a set of typewriters and left alone long enough, then they would eventually produce all of the works of Shakespeare. 52 Artificial Intelligence 3.2 HILL CLIMBING Hill cli