all see in the next section. 17.1.2 Circumscription Circumscription, devised by John McCarthy, is an approach that aims to minimize the extent of only some predicates (McCarthy, 1980; 1986), (Lifschitz, 1985; 1994). Traditionally, these predicates characterize abnormality with respect to the intended default inference, but circumscription itself can be done over any set of specified predicates. As observed earlier, a universally quantified relation between birds and flying ability can run into problems making the knowledge base inconsistent when exceptions occur. The solution to this problem, as proposed by McCarthy, adds another clause to the antecedent saying that in addition to be being birds, the individual should not be abnormal. This clause is intended to catch the abnormal cases. Vx (Bird(x) 7Ab(x) Flies(x)) In this formulation, the abnormal birds are in fact those that cannot fly. Default reasoning with circumscription aims to minimize the extent of the abnormality predicates. That is, one assumes that individuals are by and large normal (not abnormal), with respect to the intended conclusion. The statement can be read as If something is a bird then it can fly, unless it happens to be abnormal with respect to the ability to fly . And given that we would like to normally associate birds with flight, we assume that the set of abnormal individuals is as small as can be. Let us look at the example of people chatting again. Now the author has a friend who does not chat with him, so we know that the universal does not hold. Let us add the fact that friends chat as long as they not isolated 2. KB,: Vx Vy (Priend(x,y) D Friend(y,x)) Va Vy (Friend(x, y) AnIsolated(x)anIsolated(y) D Chat (x,y)) Priend(aditi, shubhgata), Friend(aditi, jennifer), Friend(jennifer, vinayak), Friend(shubagata, subun), Isolated (jennifer) Unlike closed world reasoning, we do not add any statements to the knowledge base, but we can still characterize the set of sentences that follow from the