ves two lines, each of which can have four labels, there must be sixteen ways it could be formed. FORKs, Ts, and ARROWs involve three lines, so they could he formed in sixty-four ways each. Thus there are 208 ways to form a trihedral vertex. But, in fact, only a very small number of these labelings can actually occur in line drawings representing real physical objects. To see this, consider the planes or which the faces that form a vertex of a trihedral figure lie. These three planes must divide 3-space into eight parts (called octants) since each individual face divides the space in half and none of the faces can be coplanar. Trihedral figures may differ in the number of octants that they fil] and in the position (which must be one of the unfilled octants) from which they are viewed. Any vertex that can occur in a trihedral figure must correspond to such a division of space with some number (between one and eight) of octants filled, which is viewed from one of the unfilled octants. So to find all the vertex labelings that can occur, we need only consider all the ways of filling the octants and each of the ways of viewing those fillings, and then record the types of the vertices that we find. To illustrate this process, consider the drawing shown in Fig. 14.15, which occupies one of the eight octants formed by the intersection of the planes corresponding to the faces of vertex A. Imagine viewing this figure from each of the remaining seven octants and recording the configuration and the labeling of vertex A. Figure 14.16(a) shows the results of this, When we take those seven descriptions and eliminate cotational and angular variations, we see that only three distinct ones remain, as shown in Fig. 14.16(b). If we continue this process for objects filling up to seven octants (there can be no vertices if all eight octants are filled), we get a complete list of the possible trihedral vertices and their labelings (equivalent to that developed by Clowes [1971]). This list