tween logical definitions
suitable for internal knowledge representation and the more nuanced criteria for
felicitous linguistic usage. Thelattermaybeachieved by filtering theassertions
derivedfromtheformer. Itisalsopossiblethatfailuresof linguistic usageserveas
feedbackformodifyinginternaldefinitions,sothatfilteringbecomesunnecessary.
444 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
12.2.2 Measurements
In both scientific and commonsense theories of the world, objects have height, mass, cost,
and so on. The values that we assign for these properties are called measures. Ordi-
MEASURE
nary quantitative measures are quite easy to represent. We imagine that the universe in-
cludes abstract measure objects, such as the length that is the length of this line seg-
ment: . Wecancallthislength1.5inchesor3.81centimeters. Thus,
the same length has different names in our language.We represent the length with a units
function that takes a number as argument. (An alternative scheme is explored in Exer-
UNITSFUNCTION
cise12.9.) Ifthelinesegmentiscalled L ,wecanwrite
1
Length(L ) Inches(1.5) Centimeters(3.81).
1
Conversion betweenunitsisdonebyequatingmultiples ofoneunittoanother:
Centimeters(2.54 d) Inches(d).
Similaraxioms can be written for pounds and kilograms, seconds and days, and dollars and
cents. Measurescanbeusedtodescribe objectsasfollows:
Diameter(Basketball ) Inches(9.5).
12
List Price(Basketball ) (19).
12
d Days Duration(d) Hours(24).
Notethat (1) isnotadollarbill! Onecanhavetwodollarbills, butthere isonly one object
named (1). Note also that, while Inches(0) and Centimeters(0) refer to the same zero
length, theyarenotidentical tootherzeromeasures, suchas Seconds(0).
Simple, quantitative measures areeasy torepresent. Other measures present moreof a
problem,becausetheyhavenoagreedscaleofvalues. Exerciseshavedifficulty,dessertshave
deliciousness,andpoemshavebeauty,yetnumberscannotbeassignedtothesequalities. One
might,inamomentofpureaccountancy,dismisssuchpropertiesasuselessfor