 be suspects in a murder case. Abbott has an alibi, in the register of a respectable hotel in Albany. Babbitt also has an alibi, for his brother-inlaw testified that Babbitt was visiting him in Brooklyn at that time. Cabot pleads alibi too, claiming to have been watching a ski meet in the Catskills, but we have only his word for that. It is clear that posing the above problem in logic, one would easily arrive at a conclusion. For example one could pose it as, Murderer(abbott) v Murderer(babbitt) v Murderer(cabot) Vx (ValidAlibi(x) Murderer(x)) VxVy(Murderer(x) A x y D Murderer(y)) ValidAlibi(abbott) ValidAlibi(babbitt) The reader can verify that the above sentences lead us to believe unequivocally that Cabot is the murderer. However, there is a twist in the tale. But presently Cabot documents his alibi he had the good luck to have been caught by television in the sidelines at the ski meet. The reader should verify that now this results in a contradiction. The set of statements is inconsistent. And logic cannot deal with inconsistency (see Section 12.3.4). Holding all the given statements to be unequivocally true is not tenable. We know that one of the alibis must be false or there must be a hitherto unmentioned person. But given the information that we have, we must be deal with the statements with a flexible amount of belief in them. How valid would an alibi provided by a brother-in-law would be? Could Abbott have an accomplice working in the hotel? We know each of them are either true or false, but do not know enough to decide the truth values. One approach to dealing with such problems is to use the probabilistic approach. In doing so, one would assign some prior probabilities to the three suspects (being the murderer). For example we could say, P(A-murderer) P(B-murderer) P(C-murderer) 1 3 Then we could assign degrees of belief to the possibility that they have a valid alibi, P(A-alibi), P(B-alibi) and P(C-alibi). Then we could relate the alibis to the probabili