 for example a value maxPressureA for the pressureA variable, and likewise for pressureB, pAB, and flowAB. However, these are enough for the reasoning to start with, and QSIM allows for more landmarks to be discovered on the way. More significantly, these landmark values do not have to be numeric quantities. Symbolic ones will do. The following constraints describe the relations between the different variables. The pressure in each tank is proportional to the volume of water in the tank. pressureA M (amtA) pressureB M (amtB) The pressure drop across the conduit is equal to the difference in pressures in the two tanks. pAB pressureA pressureB The rate of flow rate across the conduit pipe is proportional to the pressure drop between the two tanks. flowAB M (pAB) The flow rate across the pipe equals the increasing amount in one tank and decreasing amount in the other. ay qamtB flowAB 4) amtd flowAB The amount of fluid in the two tanks is conserved. If flow occurs from one tank to the other then the amount decreases in the former and increases in the latter. amtA amtB total Constant(total) The set of constraints can be represented by the following diagram adopted from (Kuipers, 1994). Observe that the M constraint is a symmetric constraint. Thus, when pressureB M (amtB), it is also the case that amtB M (pressureB). The circle alongside the , on the left in the figure represents negation. Let us take a simple situation in which the two tanks are empty, and fluid is added to tank A till it becomes full. We can assume that this fluid is added instantaneously, or alternatively we can assume that there is a valve in the pipe that is opened after the fluid is added. What can one say about the events that will happen next? The available information is a partial description of the state. At time t fo, the following partial information is known. Mt pressureA pressureB a ( VFS pAB M a flowA d dt . dt Figure 17.10 The constraint diagram for the 2-tank system. The constraints are i