xamples of such learned behaviours are riding a bicycle, swimming or even singing. These skills are hard to express verbally. Such learned behaviour would be part of a control system of a robot. Conditioning is the process of acquiring the kind of information that the brain sends to the body for an automatic response. Priming is the nondeclarative memory function that improves the brain s ability to detect, identify, or respond to a stimulus that it has processed recently (Squire, 2007). Declarative memory, on the other hand, involves explicit representation, which allows remembered material to be retrieved and compared. It is the memory traditionally associated with the notion of knowledge, and it is what is lost in amnesia. In the figure there is a distinction between semantic memory which is concerned with facts, and is associated with short-term memory, and episodic memory which is concerned with remembering events, which goes into long-term memory. The episodic memory is the one that is often lost during Alzheimer s disease. This distinction is subtly different from the one proposed by Newell and Simon, when they identify knowledge in the form of rules as long-term memory and facts in the working memory as the short-term memory (see Section 6.6). One might say that the rules form an episodic memory of how to solve problems. Declarative knowledge is not conscious till it is retrieved, following some questions or cues. The retrieval process itself is not consciously accessible. An individual can only become aware of the products of this process. It is also a very selective process. A given cue will lead to the retrieval of only a very small amount of potentially available information. (ten Berge and van Hezewijk, 1999). It has been demonstrated that the process of recognition is much easier that the process of recall. Typical memory games involve recalling a sequence of numbers or names, and most of us give up after seven or eight sized collections. On the other 