 value to P to make C true, so C can only be
i
falsifiedifbothoftheseclausesarein RC(S). Now,since RC(S)isclosedunderresolution,
itwillcontaintheresolventofthesetwoclauses,andthatresolventwillhaveallofitsliterals
already falsified by the assignments to P 1 ,...,P i 1 . This contradicts our assumption that
thefirstfalsifiedclauseappearsatstage i. Hence,wehaveprovedthattheconstruction never
falsifies a clause in RC(S); that is, it produces a model of RC(S) and thus a model of S
itself(since S iscontained in RC(S)).
7.5.3 Hornclauses and definite clauses
Thecompletenessofresolutionmakesitaveryimportantinferencemethod. Inmanypractical
situations, however, the full power of resolution is not needed. Some real-world knowledge
bases satisfy certain restrictions on the form of sentences they contain, which enables them
touseamorerestricted andefficientinference algorithm.
One such restricted form is the definite clause, which is a disjunction of literals of
DEFINITECLAUSE
whichexactlyoneispositive. Forexample,theclause( L Breeze B )isadefinite
1,1 1,1
clause, whereas( B P P )isnot.
1,1 1,2 2,1
Slightlymoregeneral isthe Hornclause, whichisadisjunction ofliterals ofwhich at
HORNCLAUSE
mostone is positive. Soall definite clauses are Horn clauses, as areclauses with no positive
literals;thesearecalledgoalclauses. Hornclausesareclosedunderresolution: ifyouresolve
GOALCLAUSES
two Hornclauses, yougetbacka Hornclause.
Knowledgebasescontaining onlydefiniteclausesareinteresting forthreereasons:
1. Every definite clause can be written as an implication whose premise is a conjunction
ofpositiveliteralsandwhoseconclusionisasinglepositiveliteral. (See Exercise7.13.)
For example, the definite clause ( L Breeze B ) can be written as the im-
1,1 1,1
plication (L Breeze) B . In the implication form, the sentence is easier to
1,1 1,1
understand: itsaysthatiftheagentisin 1,1 andthereisabreeze,then 1,1 isbreezy.
In Horn form, the premise is called the body and the conclusion is called the head.