itself account for the
creation ofnewknowledgestarting fromscratch.
In the case of the medical student watching the expert, we assume that the student s
prior knowledge is sufficient to infer the patient s disease D from the symptoms. This is
not, however, enough to explain the fact that the doctor prescribes aparticular medicine M.
The student needs to propose another rule, namely, that M generally is effective against D.
Giventhisruleandthestudent spriorknowledge,thestudentcannowexplainwhytheexpert
prescribes M in this particular case. We can generalize this example to come up with the
entailment constraint
Background Hypothesis Descriptions Classifications . (19.5)
Thatis,thebackground knowledge andthenewhypothesis combinetoexplain theexamples.
Aswithpureinductivelearning,thelearningalgorithmshouldproposehypothesesthatareas
simple as possible, consistent with this constraint. Algorithms that satisfy constraint (19.5)
KNOWLEDGE-BASED
arecalled knowledge-basedinductivelearning,or KBIL,algorithms.
INDUCTIVE
LEARNING
KBIL algorithms, which are described in detail in Section 19.5, have been studied
INDUCTIVELOGIC mainly in the field of inductive logic programming, or ILP. In ILP systems, prior knowl-
PROGRAMMING
edgeplaystwokeyrolesinreducing thecomplexity oflearning:
780 Chapter 19. Knowledgein Learning
1. Becauseanyhypothesis generated mustbeconsistent withthepriorknowledge aswell
as with the new observations, the effective hypothesis space size is reduced to include
onlythosetheoriesthatareconsistent withwhatisalready known.
2. For any given set of observations, the size of the hypothesis required to construct an
explanation for the observations can be much reduced, because the prior knowledge
will be available to help out the new rules in explaining the observations. The smaller
thehypothesis, theeasieritistofind.
In addition to allowing the use of prior knowledge in induction, ILP systems can formulate
hypotheses in general first-order logic, rather than in the r