e S, variable 1 prore pi lw voltagevaluei proportional aolge indec, Variable flow flow pipe law I now I currentvaluei I. I atle multiplier electriccurrent ji Lrmitae pipe law resiflkt S re Si Staftt V aloe) electrical resistance Figure 20.3 Learning electrical laws from hydraulicswell as matching relationships found between like parts having causal relations as noted in comment fields. 4. Mapping base-to-target situations: The base-to-target analogue mapping process used in this system depends on the similarity of parts between base and target domains and role links that can be established between the two. For example. when both base and target Situations share the same domain, such as water-flow in pipes, parts between the two are easily matched for equality. A specific pipe, pipet, is matched with a general pipe, pipe#, specific water-flow, with general flow, and so forth. The relationships from the general case are then mapped directly to the specific case without change. In cases where base and target are different domains, the mapping is more difficult as part S, in general, will differ. Before mapping is attempted, links are established between corresponding parts. For example, if the two domains are waterflow and electricity-flow (it is known the two are alike), determining the electrical Sec. 20.3 Examples of Analogical Learning Systems 423 resistance in a circuit is achieved by mapping the pipe-water-flow laws to the electrical domain. Before mapping, a link between the pressure and voltage laws and the water-flow and current-flow laws is established. The link is determined from a hierarchical tree connecting the two pasts, where voltage-2 is a specific voltage. wt I.prel1. otge / p sure.pi MJsw voltag...2 In all of the above components, matching plays a dominant role. First, in recall, matching is used to determine candidate situations. Second, matching is used for scoring to select the best analogue. Finally, matching is used to determine how parts and re