s for example, various citations of this book might name its first author Stuart
Russell or S. J. Russell oreven Stewart Russle, and other authors may use the some of
the same names. Literally hundreds of companies exist solely to solve record linkage prob-
lems in financial, medical, census, and other data. Probabilistic analysis goes back to work
by Dunn (1946); the Fellegi Sunter model (1969), which is essentially naive Bayes applied
to matching, still dominates current practice. The second origin for work on identity uncer-
tainty is multitarget tracking (Sittler, 1964), which we cover in Chapter 15. For most of its
history, work in symbolic AI assumed erroneously that sensors could supply sentences with
uniqueidentifiersforobjects. Theissuewasstudiedinthecontextoflanguageunderstanding
by Charniak and Goldman (1992) and in the context of surveillance by (Huang and Russell,
1998) and Pasula et al. (1999). Pasula et al. (2003) developed a complex generative model
for authors, papers, and citation strings, involving both relational and identity uncertainty,
and demonstrated high accuracy for citation information extraction. The first formally de-
fined language for open-universe probability models was BLOG (Milch et al., 2005), which
camewith acomplete (albeit slow) MCM Cinference algorithm forallwell-defined mdoels.
(The program code faintly visible on the front cover of this book is part of a BLOG model
fordetecting nuclear explosions from seismic signals aspart ofthe UN Comprehensive Test
Ban Treaty verification regime.) Laskey (2008) describes another open-universe modeling
language calledmulti-entity Bayesiannetworks.
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 557
As explained in Chapter 13, early probabilistic systems fell out of favor in the early
1970s, leaving a partial vacuum to be filled by alternative methods. Certainty factors were
invented foruseinthemedicalexpertsystem MYCIN (Shortliffe, 1976),whichwasintended
both as an engineering solution and as a model