io yn reasoning would be carried out by transposing these characters and by a species of calculus. (P ral Science, 1677. Revision of Rutherford s translation in (Jolley, 1995)) rve the relevance of the above statement made more than three centuries ago for artificial intelligenc on with the physical symbol system hypothesis. The principles of Leibniz s logic are the following: our ideas are compounded from a very small number of simple ideas , which form the alphabet ought. omplex ideas proceed from these simple ideas by a uniform and symmetrical combination, anal ithmetical multiplication. iz believed that complex thoughts would be represented by combining characters for simpler roposed assigning characteristic numbers to concepts. For example, basic concepts are assign and complex concepts non-primes, so that the composition of the complex concept out of basic evealed by the multiplication of primes giving a non-prime characteristic. Leibniz gives an exam a Calcul of 1679, where he assigns 2 to animal and 3 to rational . He concludes that hi rized by 2 x 3, i.e. 6, as humans are rational animals. In a similar fashion, he argues that an ape hi istic 10 is not a human, since neither is 10 divisible by 6 nor 6 by 10. But both have 2, i.e. being an (Schroeder 1997). Inspired by the mechanical calculators built by Blaise Pascal (1623-1662) he v 2asoning machine, the calculus ratiocinator, which current day Al researchers would recognize as a eibniz was a person of diverse interests and among other things he invented calculus and the binan cise history of logic can be found in (King and Shapiro, 1995). By the time George Boole and Aug! (1806-1871) came onto the scene the system of using explicit variables to stand for things was a large number of philosophers had contributed to the development of logical reasoning. De sd some of the basic laws of propositional logic . But it was Boole who clearly stated the principle algebra. As to the lawfulness of this mode of procedu