ephant (gaja, or the modern day bishop), the cavalry or horse (ashwa, modern day knight), the chariot (ratha sakata, or modern day rook), and finally, the infantry (sainika bhata, or modern day pawns) from Wikipedia (http: en. wikipedia.org wiki History of chess). 2 This sort of exemplifies the attitude of Al detractors: that if the computer can do it, it does not characterize intelligence. 3 A tree structure in which each branch is a decision. 4 More recent studies have shown that such rationality exists only in the abstract scenarios. In real life, human psychology plays an important role, as depicted in many a movie about a pair of characters stepping outside the law. One might also observe that in the real world, not all countries have police forces that leave room for such rationality games. 5 We will often refer to the other player as an opponent for the sake of brevity. 6 Sometimes the term game is used to refer to a strategy or a particular deviant kind of behaviour adopted by an agent, as described in the book Games People Play by Eric Berne. We are not interested in games in that sense, but as platforms on which agents act. 7 For example, Michael Howard in his book on strategic deception in the Second World War (Howard, 1995) describes how a nonexistent U.S. Army group pinned down an entire German Army in the Pas de Calais, until Montgomery s forces had achieved a secure foothold in Normandy. 8 Recent literature also uses a triangle pointing up for MAX and a triangle pointing down W for MIN. 9 We assume that the reader is familiar with Chess, or has access to one of the many introductory books on the subject. 10 Impossible is a word found only in the dictionary of fools. Napoleon Bonaparte. 11 The actual implementation is not recursive and in fact, at this point SSS shifts attention to cluster A, as shown in the hand simulation below. 12 http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Hans Berliner. In practice, Hitech uses a fairly complicated evaluation using chess specific