match between the rule that describes an ideal sound and the input that describes an unideal world. Approximate matching is particularly difficult to deal with because as we increase the tolerance allowed in the match, we also increase the number of rules that wil] match, thus increasing the size of the main search process. But approximate matching is nevertheless superior to exact matching in situations such as speech understanding. where exact matching may often result in no rules being matched and the search process coming to a grinding halt. Although symbolic techniques for approximate matching exist, there is another, very different approach that can be used to solve this problem. We discuss it in detail in Chapter 18 where we describe connectionist systems (also called neural nets). For some problems, almost all the action is in the matching of the rules to the problem state. Once that is done, so few rules apply that the remaining search is trivial. This was the case, for example, in ELIZA [Weizenbaum, 1966], an early Al program that simulated the behavior of a Rogerian therapist. A fragment of a dialogue between ELIZA and a user is shown in Figure 6.6. ELIZA s knowledge about both English and psychology was coded in a set of simple rules. Figure 6.7 shows some ELIZA-like rules. Person: Men are all alike. ELIZA: In what way? Person: They're always bugging us about something or other. ELIZA: Can you think of a specific example? Person: Well, my boyfriend made me come here. ELIZA: Your boyfriend made you come here. Person: He says i'm depressed much of the time. ELIZA: lam Sorry to hear you are depressed. Person: tt's true. | am unhappy. ELIZA: Do you think coming here will help you not to be unhappy? Person: | need some help, that much seems certain. ELIZA: What would it mean to you if you got some help? Person: Perhaps | could learn to get along with my mother. ELIZA: Tell me more about your family. Fig. 6.6 A Bit of a Dialogue with ELIZA Representing Knowled