rfactual situations.
Modernpropositionalsolvershavewideapplicabilityinindustrialapplications. Theap-
plication ofpropositional inference inthe synthesis ofcomputer hardware isnow astandard
technique having manylarge-scale deployments (Nowick etal.,1993). The SATMC satisfi-
abilitycheckerwasusedtodetectapreviously unknownvulnerability ina Webbrowseruser
sign-onprotocol (Armando etal.,2008).
Thewumpus world wasinvented by Gregory Yob(1975). Ironically, Yob developed it
because he was bored with games played on a rectangular grid: the topology of his original
wumpus world was a dodecahedron, and we put it back in the boring old grid. Michael
Genesereth wasthefirsttosuggest thatthewumpusworldbeusedasanagenttestbed.
EXERCISES
7.1 Supposetheagenthasprogressedtothepointshownin Figure 7.4(a),page239,having
perceivednothingin 1,1 ,abreezein 2,1 ,andastenchin 1,2 ,andisnowconcernedwith
the contents of 1,3 , 2,2 , and 3,1 . Each of these can contain a pit, and at most one can
containawumpus. Followingtheexampleof Figure7.5,constructthesetofpossibleworlds.
(You should find 32 of them.) Mark the worlds in which the KB is true and those in which
280 Chapter 7. Logical Agents
eachofthefollowingsentences istrue: Thereisnopitin 2,2 . 2 Thereisawumpusin 1,3 . 3
Henceshowthat KB and KB .
2 3
7.2 (Adapted from Barwise and Etchemendy (1993).) Given the following, can you prove
thattheunicornismythical? Howaboutmagical? Horned?
Iftheunicorn ismythical, thenitisimmortal, but ifitisnotmythical, thenitisa
mortalmammal. Iftheunicorn iseitherimmortaloramammal, thenitishorned.
Theunicornismagicalifitishorned.
7.3 Consider the problem of deciding whether a propositional logic sentence is true in a
givenmodel.
a. Write a recursive algorithm PL-TRUE?(s,m) that returns true if and only if the sen-
tence s is true in the model m (where m assigns a truth value for every symbol in s).
Thealgorithm shouldrunintimelinearinthesizeofthesentence. (Alternatively, usea
versionofthisfunction fromtheonlinecod