ery otherplayer sticks withthesame
EQUILIBRIUM
5 Paretooptimalityisnamedaftertheeconomist Vilfredo Pareto(1848 1923).
Section17.5. Decisionswith Multiple Agents: Game Theory 669
strategy. Anequilibrium isessentially a local optimumin thespace of policies; itisthe top
ofapeak thatslopes downward along every dimension, wherea dimension corresponds toa
player s strategychoices.
The mathematician John Nash (1928 ) proved that every game has at least one equi-
librium. The general concept of equilibrium is now called Nash equilibrium in his honor.
Clearly, a dominant strategy equilibrium is a Nash equilibrium (Exercise 17.16), but some
NASHEQUILIBRIUM
gameshave Nashequilibria butnodominantstrategies.
The dilemma in the prisoner s dilemma is that the equilibrium outcome is worse for
both players than the outcome they would get if they both refused totestify. Inother words,
(testify,testify)is Paretodominatedbythe(-1,-1)outcomeof(refuse,refuse). Isthereany
way for Alice and Bob to arrive at the (-1, -1) outcome? It is certainly an allowable option
for both of them to refuse to testify, but is is hard to see how rational agents can get there,
giventhedefinitionofthegame. Eitherplayercontemplating playing refuse willrealizethat
he or she would do better by playing testify. That is the attractive power of an equilibrium
point. Gametheorists agree thatbeinga Nashequilibrium is anecessary condition forbeing
asolution although theydisagreewhetheritisasufficient condition.
It is easy enough to get to the (refuse,refuse) solution if we modify the game. For
example,wecouldchangetoarepeatedgameinwhichtheplayersknowthattheywillmeet
again. Ortheagents might havemoral beliefs that encourage cooperation andfairness. That
means they have a different utility function, necessitating a different payoff matrix, making
it a different game. We will see later that agents with limited computational powers, rather
thantheabilitytoreasonabsolutelyrationally,canreachnon-equilibriumoutcomes,ascanan
