ns 105
werechangedsothatatilecouldmoveanywhereinsteadofjusttotheadjacentemptysquare,
thenh wouldgivetheexactnumberofstepsintheshortestsolution. Similarly,ifatilecould
1
moveonesquareinanydirection,evenontoanoccupiedsquare,thenh wouldgivetheexact
2
number of steps in the shortest solution. A problem with fewerrestrictions on the actions is
called a relaxed problem. The state-space graph of the relaxed problem is a supergraph of
RELAXEDPROBLEM
theoriginalstatespacebecause theremovalofrestrictions createsaddededgesinthegraph.
Because the relaxed problem adds edges to the state space, anyoptimal solution in the
original problem is, by definition, also a solution in the relaxed problem; but the relaxed
problem may have better solutions if the added edges provide short cuts. Hence, the cost of
anoptimal solution toarelaxedproblem isanadmissible heuristic fortheoriginal problem.
Furthermore, because the derived heuristic is an exact cost for the relaxed problem, it must
obeythetriangleinequality andistherefore consistent(seepage95).
Ifaproblem definition iswritten down inaformal language, itis possible to construct
relaxedproblemsautomatically.11 Forexample,ifthe8-puzzle actionsaredescribed as
Atilecanmovefromsquare Atosquare Bif
Aishorizontally orvertically adjacent to B and Bisblank,
wecangeneratethreerelaxedproblemsbyremovingoneorbothoftheconditions:
(a)Atilecanmovefromsquare Atosquare Bif Aisadjacentto B.
(b)Atilecanmovefromsquare Atosquare Bif Bisblank.
(c)Atilecanmovefromsquare Atosquare B.
From (a), we can derive h (Manhattan distance). The reasoning is that h would be the
2 2
properscoreifwemovedeachtileinturntoitsdestination. Theheuristic derivedfrom(b)is
discussed in Exercise3.31. From(c),wecanderive h (misplaced tiles)because itwouldbe
1
theproperscore iftilescouldmovetotheirintended destination inonestep. Noticethatitis
crucialthattherelaxedproblemsgeneratedbythistechniquecanbesolvedessentiallywithout
search,becausetherelaxedrulesallowtheproblemtobedecomposedin