ted(Pipe) Broken,(Pipe). Likewise, one of the pipes may have a hole, letting the water fall into O and triggering the alarm. Blocked(Pipe) Broken2(Pipe). In this mode of failure, the pipe gets blocked and no water flows through it. The given observations are Output(P-OUT) 0, Alarm(O) Off. GDE constructs the following additional conflicts P-IN, O . This says that at least one of P- N and (the alarm in) O must be broken. We look at how this is arrived at in a little more detail in the following section. Given the two conflicts, there are three candidates for diagnosis, P-IN The input pipe is blocked. F, O The filter tank F has a hole and the alarm in O is not working. P-OUT, O The output pipe is perforated and the alarm in O is not working22. The important thing is that the GDE can discriminate between different fault modes and come up with more information about what is the nature of the fault. Fault models therefore have their advantages. The main disadvantage is that the space of candidates explodes. When there were only two modes OK and 7OK, the candidate space was of size 2" when there are N components. With each component admitting F faulty modes, this space grows to (F 1) . Another perceived drawback is that all fault modes must be enumerated for completeness. However, this has been countered by saying that an uninformative fault mode, equivalent to -OK, can be added as well. 17.4 Assumption Based Reasoning and Truth Maintenance A problem solver that does some reasoning in a domain may have to make assumptions. An assumption is a belief. It may not necessarily be true. Based on the assumption, the reasoning system may infer other beliefs, and still others from those beliefs. It is possible that at some point, the set of beliefs held by the problem solver becomes inconsistent. It then becomes necessary for the problem solver to retract some assumption. A Truth Maintenance System (TMS) (Doyle, 1979) is a program that does the book keeping and consistency manageme