 concerned of scientific or rational discourse. This branch is characterized by the works of Bertrand Russe idwig Wittgenstein (1889-1951), and Gottlob Frege (1848-1925). Of these Frege is the one cred 2 foundation of formal logic as we know it now, and Wittgenstein and Russell (Whitehead and Russ: developed it further. It was Frege who introduced the notion of quantified variables and complex te d the notion of proof (see (Zalta, 2005) for an account of the works of Frege). With his system o represent and distinguish the sentences every boy loves a girl and a girl is loved by every boy . nesting of quaatifi nstisquossible in his formalization, for example every boy who loves a girl who i er classmates even who are poor in mathematics is a friend of some boy who hates history . The i nat one could reason over a collection of such sentences, and that is the power of logic we seek to t will be true in all possible worlds, while a possibly true statement will be true in some possible worl s apply to what is known as ntuitionistic Logic, which has a stronger notion of truth allowing only cor (see (Van Dalen, 2001)). In particular, it does not accept Aristotle s awirefuexdided middle that : sentence P is true or its negation 7P is true (and there is no middle ground)". Thus since (P V 7P) ue one can infer that one of the statements implies the other. That is (P D Q) V (Q 2D P). Sin its can be anything, for example, The Earth is round and Two plus two is four , the connection bet ot intuitively acceptable. This is because neither in fact causally implies the other. Another varia logic that allows the expression of a default implication, like between clouds and rain, is Default Log! are true in general but not universal truths like in classical logic. We shall look at reasoning with def or 17. semantics of logic defines the meaning of statements and determines when they are true. But another route to the truth values of statements, via a proof. This is of great importance,