exhaling, and even crying may need the EXPEL act. 8. MTRANS Or Mental Transfer. The transfer of information between animals or within an animal. Thus words like saying, telling, narrating, emailing, reciting, writing, reading, and SMSing would involve mental transfer. MTRANS is also used to create a folk psychology model of the mind or the brain. The (human) memory is modeled to have partitions - CP (conscious processor), IM (immediate memory), STM (short term memory) and LTM (long term memory). Thus, verbs like remembering, forgetting, understanding, seeing may involve movement or the lack of movement between different parts of the memory. One significant difference between PTRANS and MTRANS is that the object of transfer ceases to be at source in PTRANS, but not so in MTRANS. 9. MBUILD The construction or synthesis by an animal of new information possibly from old information. This could be used to model verbs like decide, conclude, imagine, consider, infer, and deduce. 10. SPEAK The actions of producing sounds. Humans often use it as an instrumental act for MTRANS. English words that would need SPEAK are say, play music, purr, scream, roar, growl and whisper. 11. ATTEND (Sense Organ) The action of attending or focusing a sense organ towards a stimulus. Also an instrument to MTRANS. To see is to MTRANS to CP from eye by instrument of ATTEND(eye) to object. Likewise to hear or listen is to ATTEND(ear). We look at some examples to illustrate the use of CD acts and states to represent some conceptualizations expressed in English sentences. 13.6.4 Conceptualizations Conceptualizations are representations in the language of conceptual dependency. While each CD act corresponds to some linguistic verb, the dependency relations allow us to combine different combinations to construct complex representations. We look at examples of English language sentences and their CD representations. When we believe something then that conceptualization is resident in our imm diatkhuhem