y ever to devise a
0
completegrammarfor English, ifonlybecausenotwopersons wouldagreeentirelyonwhat
constitutes valid English.
23.1.1 The lexiconof E
0
Firstwedefinethelexicon,orlistofallowablewords. Thewordsaregroupedintothelexical
LEXICON
categories familiar to dictionary users: nouns, pronouns, and names to denote things; verbs
to denote events; adjectives to modify nouns; adverbs to modify verbs; and function words:
articles (such as the), prepositions (in), and conjunctions (and). Figure 23.1 shows a small
lexiconforthelanguage E .
0
Eachofthecategories endsin...toindicate thatthereareotherwordsinthecategory.
For nouns, names, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs, it is infeasible even in principle to list all
the words. Not only are there tens of thousands of members in each class, but new ones like i Pod or biodiesel are being added constantly. These five categories are called open
classes. Forthecategoriesofpronoun, relativepronoun, article, preposition, andconjunction
OPENCLASS
we could have listed all the words with a little more work. These are called closed classes;
CLOSEDCLASS
they have a small number of words (a dozen or so). Closed classes change over the course
ofcenturies, notmonths. Forexample, thee and thou werecommonly used pronouns in
the17thcentury, wereonthedeclineinthe19th,andareseen todayonlyinpoetryandsome
regionaldialects.
23.1.2 The Grammarof E
0
The next step is to combine the words into phrases. Figure 23.2 shows a grammar for E ,
0
with rules for each of the six syntactic categories and an example for each rewrite rule.2
Figure 23.3 shows a parse tree for the sentence Every wumpus smells. The parse tree
PARSETREE
1 PCF Gsarealsoknownasstochasticcontext-freegrammars,or SCF Gs.
2 A relative clause follows and modifies a noun phrase. It consists of a relative pronoun (such as who or that )followedbyaverbphrase. Anexampleofarelativeclauseisthatstinksin Thewumpusthatstinksisin
22. Anotherkindofrelativeclausehasnorelativepronoun,e.g.,Iknowin thema