lass, is a wizard because all members of Pfamily are wizards stated in ALL :Member Wiz . Hence, Pfamily is a type of family in which all the children are wizards. Structure mapping cannot cater to such interactions between different clauses in a description. New concepts are defined by the AND operator as a combination of constituent concepts. However, as observed above, DL cannot cater to interaction between the concepts. We consider another problem of defining the set of aunts or the concept Aunt. A woman is an aunt if she has a sibling who has a child. Or, a woman is an aunt if she has a sibling who is a parent. The fact that she must have a sibling can be handled by EXISTS operator with the :Sibling role. But the constraint that the sibling must be a parent cannot be handled. One can define the set of parents, and the set of people with siblings as, Parent EXISTS 1 :Child HasSibling EXISTS 1 :Sibling But we are unable to define the concept of aunt as someone who has a sibling who has a child. We could extend our DL by one of the following operators, D-FILLS rd : like FILLS, but the second argument is a concept or D-EXISTS n rd : related by role rto n elements of type d Observe that both are similar and existential in nature, saying that there exists a filler that belongs to a certain concept; or we could introduce a subsumption hierarchy in roles and create a new role by adding an argument to role that restricts the type of elements it can relate to, RESTR rd : a specialization of role r that relates to elements of type d For example the role :Mother is the same as RESTR :Parent Female . We could then define aunts with each of the three new operators, as follows, Aunt AND Person Female EXISTS 1 :Sibling D-FILLS :Sibling Parent or Aunt AND Person Female D-EXISTS 1 :Sibling Parent or Aunt AND Person Female EXISTS 1 RESTR :Sibling Parent However, while these extensions allow us to define the concept of aunt, it is no longer possible to use structure matching to dec