rents at a junction is zero. We use this knowledge in an attempt to solve the hydraulic flow problem using the same principles, that is, we map the electncai flow solution to the hydraulic flow problem domain. This requires that coi Tespo Ading objects, attributes and relations be suitably mapped from the electrical to the hydraulic domain We then test the conjectured solution in some way. In the reminding process, we may alternatively be given a ditecl hint from a teacher that the hydraulic flow problem is like the electrical flow.probiem. Otherwise, we must infer this likeness in some way and proceed with the conjecture that they are alike, justifying the likeness on the basis of the consistency of nature or some other means. Next, we examine some iepresentative examples of analogical learning systems. Sec. 20.3 Examples of Analogical Learning Systems 20.3 EXAMPLES OF ANALOGICAL LEARNING SYSTEMS Winston's System Patrick Winston (1980) developed programs that reason about relationships, motives, and consequent actions that occur among people. Using relationships and act 's of actors in one story (such as Macbeth) the program was able to demonstrate that analogous results occurred in different stories (such as Hamlet) when there were similarities among the relationships and motives of the second group of characters. The programs could also learn through the analogical reasoning process. For example. when a teacher declared that voltage, current, and resistance relationships were like those of water pressure, flow, and pipe resistance, the system was able to learn basic results in electrical circuits and related laws such as Ohm's law (the opposite of the learning problem described above). The analogical mapping and learning process for this example is illustrated in Figure 20.3. The items in the figure labeled as voltage-value3, current-value-3, and resistance-value-3 represent specific values of voltage, current, and resistance. respectively. The important features