he window, the proximity of law enforcement
officers, the distance to the next rest stop, the condition of the road, the weather, and so on.
Alltheseconsiderations areleftoutofourstatedescriptionsbecausetheyareirrelevanttothe
problemoffindingarouteto Bucharest. Theprocessofremovingdetailfromarepresentation
iscalledabstraction.
ABSTRACTION
Inadditiontoabstractingthestatedescription, wemustabstracttheactionsthemselves.
A driving action has many effects. Besides changing the location of the vehicle and its oc-
cupants, ittakes uptime, consumes fuel, generates pollution, andchanges the agent (as they
say, travel is broadening). Our formulation takes into account only the change in location.
Also, there are many actions that we omit altogether: turning on the radio, looking out of
thewindow,slowing downforlawenforcement officers, andso on. Andofcourse, wedon t
specifyactions atthelevelof turnsteeringwheeltotheleftbyonedegree. Canwebemorepreciseaboutdefiningtheappropriatelevelofabstraction? Thinkofthe
abstract states and actions we have chosen as corresponding to large sets of detailed world
states and detailed action sequences. Now consider a solution to the abstract problem: for
example,thepathfrom Aradto Sibiuto Rimnicu Vilceato Pitestito Bucharest. Thisabstract
solution corresponds to alarge numberofmore detailed paths. Forexample, wecould drive
with the radio on between Sibiu and Rimnicu Vilcea, and then switch it off for the rest of
thetrip. Theabstraction is valid ifwecanexpand anyabstract solution intoasolution inthe
more detailed world; a sufficient condition is that for every detailed state that is in Arad, there is a detailed path to some state that is in Sibiu, and so on.5 The abstraction is useful
if carrying out each of the actions in the solution is easier than the original problem; in this
case they are easy enough that they can be carried out without further search orplanning by
an average driving agent. The choice of a good abstraction thus involves remo