 is constructed from two microarray experiments involving 10 genes, as shown in Table 18.5. Each gene has two features, x ) and x2), that correspond to expression levels of a gene under two different conditions, as measured by two microarray experiments. The challenge in K-means clustering is to specify a number of clusters K as an input parameter to the algorithm. Visualization of the data provides useful information about distribution of points (genes in this case) in the input space (here, expression levels). Visualization is possible only when the number of dimensions is less than three. In this case, the number of dimensions is two and hence we can visualize the data. The visualization (Figure 18.15) shows that there are two natural groups in the data and hence we set k 2 for this dataset. Table 18.5 A small gene data set m x! iS gz o x mM x Kol OF 3 x gene-5 gene-6 gene-7 gene-8 gene-9 gene-10 lafan A A oo r n a o BID) OO BIPM A ph Whenever the number of dimensions is greater than three, it is usual practice to reduce the number of dimensions by projecting the data on lower dimensional subspace using techniques like Principle Component Analysis (PCA) or Multi-Dimensional Scaling (MDS). The visualization is performed using top two or three dimensions. We will not cover dimensionality reduction in this chapter and we refer interested readers to (Bishop, 2006). The K-means algorithm starts by randomly initializing cluster centroids. Let 4, and pa be the centroids of clusters 1 and 2 respectively. Let's initialize two centroids to the following values: My (2, 2) and 2 (5, 5) x2) nt xd FIGURE 18.15 The gene expression data from Table 18.5. It then follows an iterative process which runs till convergence, which is evaluated based on one of the two criteria: Cluster assignments do not change across successive iterations. Cluster centroids do not change across successive iterations. Note that both these criteria are equivalent. Iteration 1 E-step: Calculate the distan