his may happen if one wants to model a process without having access to numerical data. For example, the ice on a lake may be considered to be safe for skating after a certain thickness. Look at the following statements, Kebe-fluiddarthe brake pipes is frozen. Mohammed Ali was the heavyweight champion. The symbols frozen and heavyweight may now be es as values of variables. Variables taking such qualitative values are called as qualitative variables. Each such value in fact represents a set of values, which have the same effect of the reasoning process. We will look at qualitative reasoning ater in Chapter 17. 13.4.2 Beyond Truth Functional Semantics Given a language, what is its semantics? We have discussed the semantics of sentences from a logic perspective. The terms of a language denote objects in a domain. The meaning of predicates in FOL derives from the mapping to relations in the domain, and the truth values determine whether the sentence is true or not. It has been argued that the use of language incorporates more than just assertion of facts. It is also concerned with making useful statements (see (Brandon, 1976), (Parikh, 1994), (Parikh and Ramanujam, 2003)). This is imperative when the different users of language may not necessarily completely agree on the truth values of assertions, but can still derive utility from communication. In fact, Parikh defines some predicates as vague predicates for which logics and semantics cannot be defined. Consider the notion of colour. In a paradox mirroring the Sorites pardox, suppose that there are a arge number (N) of colour patches labelled P, to Py, and it is known that P, is red, and that Pyis not red. Further any two consecutive patches P; and Pj; are visually indistinguishable but minutely different in colour. This would mean that we would be inclined to use the same colour name for them. Then at which point traversing from 1 to N would we say that the patch is not red? When one says the woman in the red shirt w