t are beyond the scope of this text to explore. The interested reader is referred to (Pearl, 1988) for an indepth investigation. The D-S theory operates with the power set of the frame of discernment and begins by assigning the entire belief or mass function to . Then as more evidence arrives, it distributes the mass to the other sets. Let us take each of the three statements as pieces of evidence. Taken individually, they result in the following mass functions. m, ( Aditi, Urvi ) 0.6 and m,(O) 0.4 Mpg ( Amala, Urvi ) 0.8 and m2(O) 0.2 m3( Amala, Kopal ) 0.5 and m3(9) 0.5 Observe that the three mass functions allocate the remaining mass to . Thus, the first statement assigns a belief mass of 0.6 to the set Aditi, Urvi and 0.4 to . This amounts to saying that there is 0.6 belief in the statement S One of Aditi or Urvi is the culprit , but it does not assign the remaining belief to S (which would be equivalent to saying that One of Amala or Kopal is the culprit . Instead, it assigns the remaining mass to which amounts to saying that One of Aditi, Amala, Kopal or Urvi is the culprit , which is equivalent to saying that we do not know who the culprit is. This is one way the D-S theory differs from probability theory. If in probability theory one would have said that P(S) 0.6 then it would necessarily mean that P( S) 0.4 because the two must sum to 1. The D-S theory assigns the belief mass to the statement pertaining to the evidence, and assigns the remaining to the frame of discernment. The power set of is the set of possible statements one can assign belief to, each set being a disjunction of culprits (or a conjunction of suspects). The belief assigned to each set Bel(A), ASO, is the sum of belief mass of all its subsets. Bel(4) gc, m(B) When the first piece of evidence comes in, the mass distribution is m,( Aditi, Urvi ) 0.6 and m 4( ) 0.4. This corresponds to Bel( Aditi, Urvi ) 0.6, Bel(Q) 1.0, and for every set S such that Aditi, Urvi SS, Bel(S ) 0.6. The rest have 