 distributions, fuzzy statistics, fuzzy,random variables, and fuzzy set functions. Many researchers in Al have been reluctant to accept fuzzy logic as a viable alternative to FOPL. Still, successful systems which employ fuzzy logic have been 1.0 1.0 l.0 A 0ILt) A CONIAI NORM 0 "I (et Figure 5.7 Dilation. concenlrahon. and nomializanon of u. Sec. 5.6 Fuzzy Logic and Natural Language Computations ioi developed, and a fuzzy VLSI chip has been produced by Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., of New Jersey (Togai and Watanabe, 1986). Reasoning with Fuzzy Logic The characteristic function for fuzzy sets provides a direct linkage to fuzzy logic. The degree of membership of x in A corresponds to the truth value of the statement x is a member of A where A defines some propositional or predicate class. When u A(x) = I, the proposition A is completely true, and when u A(x) = 0 it is completely false. Values between 0 and I assume corresponding values of truth or falsehood. In Chapter 4 we found that truth tables were useful in determining the truth value of a statement or wif. In general this is not possible for fuzzy logic since there may be an infinite number of truth values. One could tabulate a limited number of truth values, say those corresponding to the terms false, not very false, not true, true, very true, and so on. More importantly, it would be useful to have an inference rule equivalent to a fuzzy modus ponens. Generalized modus ponens for fuzzy sets have been proposed by a number of researchers. They differ from the standard modus ponens in that statements which are characterized by fuzzy sets are permitted and the conclusion needi not be identical to the implicand in the implication. For example, let A. A I, B, and ft be statements characterized by fuzzy sets. Then One form of the generalized modes ponens reads Premise: xis Al Implication: If x is A then y is B Conclusion: y is B I An example of this form of modus ponens is given as Premise: This banana is very yel