n the hierarchy have more expressive power, but
the algorithms for dealing with them are less efficient. Up to the 1980s, linguists
focusedoncontext-freeandcontext-sensitivelanguages. Sincethen,therehasbeen
renewed interest in regular grammars, brought about by the need to process and
learn from gigabytes or terabytes of online text very quickly, even at the cost of
a less complete analysis. As Fernando Pereira put it, The older I get, the further
down the Chomsky hierarchy I go. To see what he means, compare Pereira and
Warren (1980) with Mohri, Pereira, and Riley (2002) (and note that these three
authorsallnowworkonlargetextcorporaat Google).
890 Chapter 23. Natural Languagefor Communication
There have been many competing language models based on the idea of phrase struc-
PROBABILISTIC
ture; we will describe a popular model called the probabilistic context-free grammar, or
CONTEXT-FREE
GRAMMAR PCFG.1 A grammar is a collection of rules that defines a language as a set of allowable
GRAMMAR
strings ofwords. Context-free isdescribed inthesidebar onpage 889, and probabilistic LANGUAGE
meansthatthegrammarassignsaprobability toeverystring. Hereisa PCF Grule:
VP Verb 0.70 VP NP 0.30 .
NON-TERMINAL Here VP (verb phrase) and NP (noun phrase) are non-terminal symbols. The grammar
SYMBOLS
alsorefers toactual words, whicharecalled terminalsymbols. Thisruleissaying thatwith
TERMINALSYMBOL
probability 0.70 averb phrase consists solely ofa verb, and with probability 0.30 itis a VP
followedbyan NP. Appendix Bdescribes non-probabilistic context-free grammars.
Wenow defineagrammarforatiny fragment of English thatissuitable forcommuni-
cationbetweenagentsexploringthewumpusworld. Wecallthislanguage E . Latersections
0
improve on E to make it slightly closer to real English. We are unlikely ever to devise a
0
completegrammarfor English, ifonlybecausenotwopersons wouldagreeentirelyonwhat
constitutes valid English.
23.1.1 The lexiconof E
0
Firstwedefinethelexicon,orlistofallowablewords. 