ortion, P(d ). Note that for sentences bounded by length n we have d n , and
i i
8 For the finer points of translation, n-grams are clearly not enough. Marcel Proust s 4000-page novel A la
re cherchedutempsperdubeginsandendswiththesameword(longtemps),sosometranslatorshavedecidedto
dothesame,thusbasingthetranslationofthefinalwordononethatappearedroughly2millionwordsearlier.
Section23.4. Machine Translation 911
so the full probability distribution P(d ) has only 2n 1 elements, far fewer numbers to
i
learn than the number of permutations, n!. That is why we defined the permutation in this
circuitous way. Of course, this is a rather impoverished model of distortion. It doesn t say
that adjectives are usually distorted to appear after the noun when we are translating from
Englishto French that factisrepresented inthe Frenchlanguage model,P(f). Thedistor-
tion probability is completely independent of the words in the phrases it depends only on
the integer value d . Theprobability distribution provides a summary of the volatility of the
i
permutations; howlikelyadistortion of P(d 2)is,comparedto P(d 0),forexample.
We re ready now to put it all together: we can define P(f,d e), the probability that
thesequenceofphrases f withdistortions disatranslation ofthesequenceofphrases e. We
make the assumption that each phrase translation and each distortion is independent of the
others, andthuswecanfactortheexpression as
(cid:25)
P(f,d e) P(f e )P(d )
i i i
i
e e e e e
1 2 3 4 5
There is a smelly wumpus sleeping in 2 2
f f f f f
1 3 2 4 5
Il y a un wumpus malodorant qui dort 2 2
d 0 d -2 d 1 d 1 d 0
1 3 2 4 5
Figure23.13 Candidate Frenchphrasesforeachphraseofan Englishsentence,withdis-
tortion(d)valuesforeach Frenchphrase.
Thatgivesusawaytocomputetheprobability P(f,d e)foracandidate translation f
anddistortion d. Buttofindthebestf anddwecan t justenumerate sentences; withmaybe
100 French phrases for each English phrase in the corpus, there are 1005 different 5-phrase
translations, a