many human-computer interfaces. Speech recognition systems have been available for some time, but their limitations have prevented widespread use. Below are five major design issues in speech systems. These issues also provide dimensions along which systems can be compared with one another. e Speaker Dependence versus Speaker Independence A speaker-independent system can listen to any speaker and transjate the sounds into written text. Speaker independence is hard to achieve because of the wide variations in pitch and accent. It is easier to build a speaker-dependent system, which can be trained on the voice patterns of a single speaker. The system will only work for that one speaker. It can be retrained on another voice, but then it will no Jonger work for the original speaker. Continuous versus Isolated-Word Speech Interpreting isolated-word speech, in which the speaker pauses between each word, is easier than interpreting continuous speech, This is because boundaty effects cause words to be pronounced differently in different contexts. For example, the spoken phrase could you contains a j sound, and despite the fact it contains two words, there is no empty space between them in the speech wave. The ability to recognize continuous speech is very important, however, since humans have difficulty speaking in isolated words. Perception and Action 437 TIE TNS EEN IIIT Real Time versus Offline Processing Highly interactive applications require that a sentence be translated into text as it is being spoken, while in other situations, it is permissihle to spend minutes in computation. Real-time speeds are hard to achieve, especially when higher-level knowledge is involved. e Large versus Small Vocabulary Recognizing utterances that are confined to small vocabularies (e.g., 20 words) is easier than working with large vocabularies (e.g., 20,000 words).A small vocabulary helps to limit the number of word candidates for a given speech segment. Broad versus Narrow Grammar An ex