cealment
and bluff to confuse the enemy. Partially observable games share these characteristics and
arethusqualitatively differentfromthegamesdescribed inthepreceding sections.
5.6.1 Kriegspiel: Partiallyobservablechess
Indeterministicpartiallyobservablegames,uncertaintyaboutthestateoftheboardarisesen-
tirelyfromlackofaccesstothechoicesmadebytheopponent. Thisclassincludeschildren s
gamessuchas Battleships(whereeachplayer sshipsareplacedinlocationshiddenfromthe
opponentbutdonotmove)and Stratego(wherepiecelocationsareknownbutpiecetypesare
hidden). Wewill examine the game of Kriegspiel, apartially observable variant of chess in
KRIEGSPIEL
whichpiecescanmovebutarecompletelyinvisible totheopponent.
The rules of Kriegspiel are as follows: White and Black each see a board containing
onlytheirownpieces. Areferee,whocanseeallthepieces,adjudicatesthegameandperiod-
ically makes announcements that are heard by both players. On his turn, White proposes to
thereferee anymovethatwouldbelegalifthere werenoblack pieces. Ifthemoveisinfact
not legal (because of the black pieces), the referee announces illegal. In this case, White
maykeepproposing movesuntilalegaloneisfound and learnsmoreaboutthelocation of
Black s pieces in the process. Once a legal move is proposed, the referee announces one or
Section5.6. Partially Observable Games 181
more of the following: Capture on square X if there is a capture, and Check by D if the
black king is in check, where D is the direction of the check, and can be one of Knight, Rank, File, Long diagonal, or Short diagonal. (In case of discovered check, the ref-
eree may make two Check announcements.) If Black is checkmated or stalemated, the
refereesaysso;otherwise, itis Black sturntomove.
Kriegspielmayseemterrifyinglyimpossible,buthumansmanageitquitewellandcom-
puter programs are beginning to catch up. It helps to recall the notion of a belief state as
defined in Section 4.4 and illustrated in Figure 4.14 the set of all logically possible board
state