andom variables and taking their mean tends to a normal distribution as n tends to
infinity. Thisholdsforalmostanycollectionofrandomvariables, eveniftheyarenotstrictly
independent, unlessthevarianceofanyfinitesubsetofvariables dominatestheothers.
The expectation of a random variable, E(X), is the mean or average value, weighted
EXPECTATION
bytheprobability ofeachvalue. Foradiscrete variableitis:
(cid:12)
E(X) x P(X x ).
i i
i
Foracontinuousvariable,replacethesummationwithanintegralovertheprobabilitydensity
function, P(x):
(cid:26) E(X) x P(x)dx, Bibliographical and Historical Notes 1059
Therootmeansquare,RMS,ofasetofvalues(oftensamplesofarandomvariable)is
ROOTMEANSQUARE
thesquarerootofthemeanofthesquares ofthevalues,
(cid:8)
x2 ... x2
RMS(x ,...,x ) 1 n .
1 n
n
Thecovarianceoftworandomvariablesistheexpectationoftheproductoftheirdifferences
COVARIANCE
fromtheirmeans:
cov(X,Y) E((X )(Y )).
X Y
The covariance matrix, often denoted , is a matrix of covariances between elements of a
COVARIANCEMATRIX
vector of random variables. Given X (cid:16)X ,...X (cid:17)(cid:12) , the entries of the covariance matrix
1 n
areasfollows: cov(X ,X ) E((X )(X )).
i,j i j i i j j
Afew more miscellaneous points: weuse log(x)forthe natural logarithm, log (x). Weuse
e
argmax f(x)forthevalueofxforwhichf(x)ismaximal.
x
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL AND HISTORICAL NOTES
The O()notationsowidelyusedincomputersciencetodaywasfirstintroducedinthecontext
of numbertheory by the Germanmathematician P.G.H. Bachmann (1894). Theconcept of
NP-completeness was invented by Cook (1971), and the modern method for establishing a
reduction fromoneproblem toanotherisdueto Karp(1972). Cookand Karphavebothwon
the Turingaward,thehighesthonorincomputerscience, for theirwork.
Classic works on the analysis and design ofalgorithms include those by Knuth (1973)
and Aho, Hopcroft, and Ullman (1974); more recent contributions are by Tarjan (1983) and
Cormen, Leiserson, and Rivest (1990). These books place an emphasis on designing and
an