nt graph, can beused tofindsolutions quickly. Mostofthe approaches herealso
applytootherproblemsbesides CS Ps,suchasprobabilistic reasoning. Afterall,theonlyway
wecan possibly hope todeal withthe realworld istodecompose itintomany subproblems.
Lookingagainattheconstraintgraphfor Australia(Figure6.1(b),repeatedas Figure6.12(a)),
onefactstandsout: Tasmaniaisnotconnectedtothemainland.3 Intuitively, itisobviousthat
INDEPENDENT coloring Tasmania and coloring the mainland are independentsubproblems any solution
SUBPROBLEMS
for the mainland combined with any solution for Tasmania yields a solution for the whole
CONNECTED map. Independence can be ascertained simply by finding connected components of the
COMPONENT
constraint graph. Each component corresponds to a subproblem CSP . If assignment S is
(cid:22) (cid:22) i i
a solution of CSP , then S is a solution of CSP . Why is this important? Consider
i i i i i
the following: suppose each CSP has c variables from the total of n variables, where c is
i
a constant. Then there are n c subproblems, each of which takes at most dc work to solve,
3 Acarefulcartographerorpatriotic Tasmanianmightobject that Tasmaniashouldnotbecoloredthesameas
itsnearestmainlandneighbor,toavoidtheimpressionthatitmightbepartofthatstate.
Section6.5. The Structureof Problems 223
where d is the size of the domain. Hence, the total work is O(dcn c), which is linear in n;
without the decomposition, the total work is O(dn), which is exponential in n. Let s make
thismoreconcrete: dividinga Boolean CS Pwith80variables intofoursubproblems reduces
theworst-casesolution timefromthelifetimeoftheuniversedowntolessthanasecond.
Completely independent subproblems are delicious, then, but rare. Fortunately, some
other graph structures are also easy to solve. Forexample, a constraint graph isa tree when
anytwovariablesareconnectedbyonlyonepath. Weshowthatanytree-structured CS Pcan
besolved intimelinear inthenumberofvariables.4 Thekeyisanewnotion ofconsistency,
DIRECTEDAR