minimum bounding rectangle is found as the rectangular area defined by the intersection of the horizontal and vertical lines which pass through the maximum and minimum pixel positions of the region. Three-Dimensional Descriptions Up to this point, we have been mainly concerned with developing two-dimensiona descriptions for images. But for many applications, an analysis which produces it three-dimensional scene description will be required. When a stereo s ystem is being used, the methods described in the previous section for stereo analysis can he applied to estimate such parameters as depths, volumes, and distances of objects. When a two-dimensional image is being used as the source, this information must be determined by other means. Several programs capable of interpreting images consisting of three -dimensional polyhedral blocks world objects were written beginning in the early 196 (Roberts. 1965. Guzman, 1969, Huffman, 1971, Clowes, 1971 and Waltz, 1975). The experience gained from this work has led to algorithms and techniques with which to classify and identify regular complex polyhedral types of objects from two-dimensional images. Roberts wrote a program which began by finding lines in the image which corresponded to the edges of the polyhedral objects. It then used descriptions of the lines to match against stored models of primitive objects such as wedges. cubes, and prisms. To perfm the match operation, it was necessary to transform the objects by scaling and performing rotations and translations until a best match was Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 308 possible. Once a match was obtained and all objects identified, the program demonstrated its "understanding'' of the scene by producing a graphic display of it on a monitor screen. Guzman wrote a program called SEE which examined how surfaces from the same object were linked together. The geometric relationships between different types of line junctions (vertices) helped to determine the object type