e kind of problems that it is reasonable to
expect. This works as long as the distribution of past examples is roughly the same as for
future examples the same assumption used for PAC-learning in Section 18.5. If the EBL
system is carefully engineered, it is possible to obtain significant speedups. For example, a
very large Prolog-based natural language system designed for speech-to-speech translation
between Swedish and English was able to achieve real-time performance only by the appli-
cationof EB Ltotheparsingprocess (Samuelssonand Rayner, 1991).
19.4 LEARNING USING RELEVANCE INFORMATION
Ourtravelerin Brazilseemstobeabletomakeaconfidentgeneralizationconcerningthelan-
guagespokenbyother Brazilians. Theinferenceissanctionedbyherbackgroundknowledge,
namely, that people in a given country (usually) speak the same language. We can express
thisinfirst-orderlogicasfollows:2
Nationality(x,n) Nationality(y,n) Language(x,l) Language(y,l).(19.6)
(Literal translation: If x and y have the samenationality n and x speaks language l, then y
alsospeaksit. ) Itisnotdifficulttoshowthat,fromthissentence andtheobservation that
Nationality(Fernando,Brazil) Language(Fernando,Portuguese),
thefollowingconclusion isentailed(see Exercise19.1):
Nationality(x,Brazil) Language(x,Portuguese).
Sentencessuchas(19.6)express astrict formofrelevance: givennationality, language
isfullydetermined. (Putanotherway: languageisafunctionofnationality.) Thesesentences
FUNCTIONAL arecalled functionaldependenciesordeterminations. Theyoccursocommonly incertain
DEPENDENCY
kinds of applications (e.g., defining database designs) that a special syntax is used to write
DETERMINATION
them. Weadoptthenotation of Davies(1985):
Nationality(x,n) Language(x,l).
2 Weassumeforthesakeofsimplicitythatapersonspeaksonlyonelanguage. Clearly,therulewouldhaveto
beamendedforcountriessuchas Switzerlandand India.
Section19.4. Learning Using Relevance Information 785
As usual, this is simply a syntactic sugaring, but it makes it cl