etwork. Between extensions 1 and 2, neither is preferred over the other. One might ask whether one might prefer one extension over another. Looking at the above three extensions, we can see that all the edges in extensions 1 and 2 are admissible in the original graph, but extension 2 contains an edge c-7d which was not admissible in the original graph. We say that the first two extensions are preferred over the third. A credulous extension E is preferred to a credulous extension F with respect to a node A, if F contains an edge X:7Y (or X-Y) that is inadmissible with respect to A in the original inheritance graph and E does not contain that edge, but agrees with F up to node X. A credulous extension is a preferred extension, if there is no other credulous extension that is preferred to it. Finally, given an inheritance network , what can we infer about a given node A? Various forms of reasoning have been proposed (Brachman and Levesque, 2004). Credulous Reasoning Allow all conclusions that are supported by any preferred extension. Skeptical Reasoning Believe all those conclusions X that are supported by A:Ny-...:-NyX in all the preferred extensions. Ideally Skeptical Reasoning Believe all those conclusions A X that are supported by some path in each preferred extension. 14.7 Description Logics The taxonomies built in frames, semantic nets and MOPs are all hand crafted, and do not necessarily have a logical basis. The inferences we make about inheritance of property values are only plausible inferences. In this section, we explore the representation of compound concepts in terms of simpler ones, using what are known as Description Logics. In a Description Logic (DL), the property values of a compound concept are derived from their descriptions and from the properties of atomic concepts. One of the earliest approaches to devise a compositional knowledge representation scheme was by Gottfried Leibniz when he introduced the notions of characteristica universalis and cal