tion (restaurant-fast-foods) AKO (an elephant is a kind of mammal) Conceptual containment (a triangle is a polygon) Sets and their type (an elephant and a set of elephants) Role value restrictions (an elephant trunk is a cylinder 1.3 meters in length) GENERIC-INDIVIDUAL RELATIONSHIPS Set membership (Clyde is a came!) Predication (predicate application to individual as in BROWN(cainel)) Conceptual containment (king and the King of England) Abstraction (the ''eagle" in "the eagle is an endangered species'') Figure 7.3 illustrates some important features associative networks are good at representitg. First, it should be apparent that networks clearly show an entity's attributes and its relationships to other entities. This makes It easy to retrieve the properties an entity shares with other entities. For this, it is only necessary to check direct links tied to that entity. Second, networks can be constructed to exhibit any hierarchical or taxonomic structure inherent in a group of entities or concepts. For example, at the top of the structure in Figure 7.3 is the Texas State University System. One level down from this. node are specific state universities within the system. One of these universities, the University of Texas at El Paso. is shown with some of its subparts, colleges, which in turn have subparts. the different departments. One member of the Computer Science Department is Bob, a professor who Sec. 7.2 Associative Networks 131 owns a house and is married to Sandy. Finally, we see that networks depict the way in which knowledge is distributed or clustered about entities in a KB. Associative network structures permit the implementation of property inheritance, a form of inference. Nodes which are members or subsets of other nodes may inherit properties front higher level ancester nodes. For example, from the network of Figure 7.4. it is possible to infer that a mouse has hair and drinks milk. Property inheritance of this type is recognized as a form of default