sfers-through, mutually-disjoint-with, etc). CYCL generalizes the notion of inheritance so that properties can be inherited along any link, not just isa and instance. Consider the two statements: Mary likes: 222 constraints: (Lisp Constraint} Lisp Constraint slot Constrained: (likes) slot Value Subsumes: (The Set Of X (Person all Instances) (And (programsln X Lisp Language) (Not (There Exists Y (Languages all Instances} {And (Not (Equal Y Lisp Language) } (programsin X )))})) propagation Direction: forward Bob programs In: - (hisp Language) Jane programs In: (Lisp Language CLanguage) Fig. 10.6 Frames and Constraint Expressions in CYC 1. All birds have two legs. 2. All of Mary s friends speak Spanish. We can easily encode the first fact using standard inheritanceany frame with Bird on its instance slot inherits the value 2 on its /egs slot. The second fact can be encoded in a similar fashion if we allow inheritance to proceed along the friend relation any frame with Mary on its friend slot inherits the value Spanish on its languages Spoken slot. CYC further generalizes inheritance to apply to a chain of relations, allowing us to express facts like, All the parents of Mary s friends are rich, where the value Rich is inherited through a composition of the friend and parent Of links. In addition to frames, CYCL contains a constraint language that allows the expression of arbitrary firstorder logical expressions. For example, Fig. 10.6 shows how we can express the fact Mary likes people who program solely in Lisp. Mary has a constraint called lisp Constraint, which restricts the values of her likes slot. The slot Value Subsumes attribute of lisp Constraint ensures that Mary s likes slot will be filled with at least those individuals that satisfy the logical condition, namely that they program in Lisp Language and no others. The time at which the default reasoning is actually performed is determined by the direction of the slot Value Subsumes rules. If the direction is ba