 Aristotle s followers, the Peripatetics, to the standard collection of his six works on logic Categories: Aristotle s 10-fold classification of that which exists. These categories consist of st intity, quality, relation, place, time, situation, condition, action, and passion. On Interpretation: Aristotle s conception of proposition and judgment, and the various relations mative, negative, universal and particular propositions. ior Analytics: On what can be taken to be true by itself, the syllogisms. osterior Analytics: deals with demonstration, definition, and scientific knowledge. A demonstration is a proof. )pics: Treats issues in constructing valid arguments, and inference that is probable, rather than certa n Sophistical Refutations: gives a treatment of logical fallacies, and provides a key link to Aristotle s toric. tle was largely concerned with deductive arguments, as are we, and he defines deduction as follows duction is speech (logos) in which, certain things having been supposed, something different fre 1 results of necessity because of their being so. (Prior Analytics 1.2, 24b18 20) of the things supposed is a premise of the argument, and what results of necessity is the conclusi yllogism was concerned with four kinds of statements, luniversal affirmative universal negative particular affirmative particular negative" tatements can also be categorized as Asp, Esp, sp, and Osp, where s stands for subject and p s (for example, All men are mortal ) (for example, No man is immortal ) (for example, Some men are bright ) (for example, Some men are not bright ) jor premise ior premise nclusion : All men (middle) are mortal (major) : Socrates (minor) is a man (middle) : Socrates (minor) is mortal (major) ifferent kinds of syllogisms could be categorized into four figures based on the position of the mid figures are described below. The four figures in Aristotelian logic. Each sentence is made of two terms. First figure Second figure Third figure Fourth fis premi