 one could fill in the slot as a last resort wherk i risentense is finished, and perhaps flag a warning. Another example that illustrates the utility of grammar rules is the sentence saw,th Graa Canyon flying into New York (Schank, 1973). After you have sorted out the ambiguity of who or what is flying, one still needs to establish a connection between the two constituent conceptualizations I flying into New York, and, seeing the Grand Canyon. A language specific rule says that the former marks the time for the latter. The entire CD structure is depicted in Figure 13.17. M R eye I p I I MTRANS tt A 2) ; hy Grand Canyon LOOK-AT while 2 I p wee ie Grand Canyon 1 PTRANS air LOC D PROPEL plane h 4 ; Nx CONT plane D NY FIGURE 13.17 An English specific rule says that one action (seeing) can happen while another event is happening. Observe that in our model it is the plane that is PROPELing itself in the air. This, flying in a plane, is one of the senses that one can accept the word flying in, apart from actually flying a plane, or flying by oneself which only birds and insects (or Superman) can do. Conceptual analysis or semantic parsing is a two stage process. First the skeleton of the conceptual structure has to be hypothesized. This is done by retrieving structures from a dictionary that stores CD structures against each linguistic verb. In the second phase the empty slots in the hypothesized structures have to be filled in with information extracted from the processed utterances. To bring to fore the semantic knowledge while processing words, one needs to construct an appropriate dictionary or lexicon. Apart from storing syntactic categories, it should also store the different word senses in the form of CD structures with each entry. 13.7.1 Semantic Rules in a Lexicon The following description of a semantic parser is based on the work that came out of the Yale group (Schank et al, 1973; 1975), (Riesbeck, 1975), and (Birnbaum and Selfridge, 1981). The main resource use