NETIC ALGORITHMS Genetic algorithm learning methods are bused on models of natural adaptation and evolution. These learning systems improve their performance through processes hich model population genetics and survival of the fittest. They have been studied since the early 1960s (Holland. 1962. 1975L In the field of genetics. a population is subjected to an environment hich places demands on the members. The members which adapt well are selected for mating and reproduction. The offspring of these better performers inherit genetic traits from both their parents. Members of this second generation of offspring hich also adapt well are then selected for mating and repduction and the evolutionary cycle continues. Poor performers die off without leaving offspring. Good performers produce good offspring and they. in turn, perform well. After some number of generations. the resultant population will have adapted optimally or at least very well to the environment. Genetic algorithm systems stall with a fixed size population of data structures 376 Early Work in Machine Learning Chap. 17 which are used to perform some given tasks. After requiring the structures to execute the specified tasks some number of times, the structures are rated on their performance, and a new generation of data structures is then created. The new generation is created by mating the higher performing structures to produce bffspring. These offspring and their parents are then retained for the next generation while the poorer performing structures are discarded. The basic cycle is illustrated in Figure 17.8. Mutations are also performed on the best performing structures to insure that the full space of possible structures is reachable. This process is repeated for a number of generations until the resultant population consists of only the highest performing structures. Data structures which make up the population can represent rules or any other suitable types of knowledge structure. To illustrate the 