cisions. The work of
Richard Bellman (1957) formalized a class of sequential decision problems called Markov
decisionprocesses, whichwestudyin Chapters17and21.
Work in economics and operations research has contributed much to our notion of ra-
tional agents, yet for many years AI research developed along entirely separate paths. One
reason was the apparent complexity of making rational decisions. The pioneering AI re-
searcher Herbert Simon(1916 2001) wonthe Nobel Prizeineconomicsin1978forhisearly
work showing that models based on satisficing making decisions that are good enough, SATISFICING
rather than laboriously calculating an optimal decision gave a better description of actual
human behavior (Simon, 1947). Since the 1990s, there has been a resurgence of interest in
decision-theoretic techniques foragentsystems(Wellman,1995).
1.2.4 Neuroscience Howdobrainsprocess information?
Neuroscience is the study of the nervous system, particularly the brain. Although the exact
NEUROSCIENCE
wayinwhichthebrainenablesthoughtisoneofthegreatmysteriesofscience,thefactthatit
doesenablethoughthasbeenappreciated forthousands ofyearsbecauseoftheevidencethat
strong blowsto the head can lead tomental incapacitation. Ithas also long been known that
humanbrains aresomehow different; inabout 335 B.C. Aristotle wrote, Ofalltheanimals,
man has the largest brain in proportion to his size. 5 Still, it was not until the middle of the
18th century thatthebrain waswidely recognized astheseat ofconsciousness. Before then,
candidate locations included theheartandthespleen.
Paul Broca s (1824 1880) study of aphasia (speech deficit) in brain-damaged patients
in 1861 demonstrated the existence of localized areas of the brain responsible for specific
cognitive functions. In particular, he showed that speech production was localized to the
portion of the left hemisphere now called Broca s area.6 By that time, it was known that
the brain consisted of nerve cells, or neurons, but it was not until 1873 