ithin two squares after 25 observations. This is because of the algorithm s ability
tointegrate evidenceovertimeandtotakeintoaccount theprobabilistic constraints imposed
on the location sequence by the transition model. When (cid:2) is 10 , the performance after
a half-dozen observations is hard to distinguish from the performance with perfect sensing.
Exercise15.7asksyoutoexplore howrobust the HM Mlocalization algorithm istoerrorsin
thepriordistribution P(X )andinthetransition modelitself. Broadly speaking, highlevels
0
of localization and path accuracy are maintained even in the face of substantial errors in the
modelsused.
The state variable for the example we have considered in this section is a physical
location in the world. Other problems can, of course, include other aspects of the world.
Exercise15.8asksyoutoconsideraversionofthevacuumrobotthathasthepolicyofgoing
straight for as long as it can; only when it encounters an obstacle does it change to a new
(randomly selected) heading. To model this robot, each state in the model consists of a
(location, heading) pair. For the environment in Figure 15.7, which has 42 empty squares,
thisleadsto168statesandatransitionmatrixwith1682 28,224entries stillamanageable
number. Ifweaddthepossibility ofdirtinthesquares, thenumberofstates ismultiplied by
242 and the transition matrix ends up with more than 1029 entries no longer a manageable
number; Section 15.5showshowtousedynamic Bayesian networks tomodeldomains with
many state variables. If we allow the robot to move continuously rather than in a discrete
grid,thenumberofstatesbecomesinfinite;thenextsection showshowtohandlethiscase.
584 Chapter 15. Probabilistic Reasoning over Time
15.4 KALMAN FILTERS
Imagine watching a small bird flying through dense jungle foliage at dusk: you glimpse
brief,intermittent flashesofmotion;youtryhardtoguesswherethebirdisandwhereitwill
appear next so that you don t lose it. Orimagine that you are a World War II radar operator
peeringatafai