s author always gives the book a 5,
regardlessofquality:
Recommendation(c,b) if Honest(c)then
if Fan(c,Author(b))then Exactly(5)
else Honest Rec CPT(Kindness(c),Quality(b))
else(cid:16)0.4,0.1,0.0,0.1,0.4(cid:17)
Again,theconditional test Fan(c,Author(b))isunknown,butifacustomergivesonly5sto
aparticularauthor sbooksandisnototherwiseespecially kind,thentheposteriorprobability
that the customer is afan of that author willbe high. Furthermore, the posterior distribution
willtendtodiscount thecustomer s5sinevaluating thequalityofthatauthor sbooks.
Inthepreceding example,weimplicitlyassumedthatthevalueof Author(b)isknown
forevery b,but this maynotbethe case. Howcanthesystem reason about whether, say, C
1
is a fan of Author(B ) when Author(B ) is unknown? The answer is that the system may
2 2
havetoreason about allpossible authors. Suppose (tokeepthings simple)thattherearejust
two authors, A and A . Then Author(B ) is a random variable with two possible values,
1 2 2
A and A ,anditisaparentof Recommendation(C ,B ). Thevariables Fan(C ,A )and
1 2 1 2 1 1
Fan(C ,A )are parents too. Theconditional distribution for Recommendation(C ,B )is
1 2 1 2
then essentially a multiplexer in which the Author(B ) parent acts as a selector to choose
MULTIPLEXER 2
which of Fan(C ,A ) and Fan(C ,A ) actually gets to influence the recommendation. A
1 1 1 2
fragment of the equivalent Bayes net is shown in Figure 14.19. Uncertainty in the value
of Author(B ), which affects the dependency structure of the network, is an instance of
2
RELATIONAL relational uncertainty.
UNCERTAINTY
In case you are wondering how the system can possibly work out who the author of
B is: consider the possibility that three other customers are fans of A (and have no other
2 1
favorite authors in common) and all three have given B a 5, even though most other cus-
2
tomers find it quite dismal. In that case, it is extremely likely that A is the author of B .
1 2
544 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
The emergence of so