,Bel(A)and Bel( A)sumtoatmost1,andthegap theintervalbetween Bel(A)
and1 Bel( A) isofteninterpreted asbounding theprobability of A.
Aswithdefaultreasoning,thereisaprobleminconnectingbeliefstoactions. Whenever
there is a gap in the beliefs, then a decision problem can be defined such that a Dempster Shafer system is unable to make a decision. In fact, the notion of utility in the Dempster Shafer model is not yet well understood because the meanings of masses and beliefs them-
selves have yet tobeunderstood. Pearl(1988) hasargued that Bel(A)should beinterpreted
not as adegree of belief in Abut as the probability assigned to all the possible worlds (now
interpreted as logical theories) in which A is provable. While there are cases in which this
quantity mightbeofinterest, itisnotthesameastheprobability that Aistrue.
ABayesiananalysisofthecoin-flippingexamplewouldsuggestthatnonewformalism
isnecessary tohandlesuchcases. Themodelwouldhavetwovariables: the Bias ofthecoin
(anumberbetween0and1,where0isacointhatalwaysshowstailsand1acointhatalways
shows heads) and the outcome of the next Flip. The prior probability distribution for Bias
550 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
wouldreflectourbeliefsbasedonthesourceofthecoin(themagician spocket): somesmall
probability that it is fair and some probability that it is heavily biased toward heads or tails.
Theconditional distribution P(Flip Bias)simplydefineshowthebiasoperates. If P(Bias)
issymmetricabout0.5,thenourpriorprobability fortheflipis
(cid:26)
1
P(Flip heads) P(Bias x)P(Flip heads Bias x)dx 0.5.
0
This is the same prediction as if we believe strongly that the coin is fair, but that does not
mean that probability theory treats the two situations identically. The difference arises after
theflipsincomputing theposteriordistribution for Bias. Ifthecoincamefrom abank, then
seeing itcomeupheads threetimesrunning wouldhavealmost noeffectonourstrong prior
belief in its fairness; but if the coin comes from the magician s pocket, the