mitted to ignore lower-level
HIERARCHY
preconditions of actions in order to derive the general structure of a working plan. Austin
Tate s Ph.D. thesis (1975b) and work by Earl Sacerdoti (1977) developed the basic ideas of
HTN planning in its modern form. Many practical planners, including O-PLAN and SIPE,
are HT Nplanners. Yang (1990) discusses properties of actions that make HT Nplanning ef-
ficient. Erol, Hendler, and Nau (1994, 1996) present a complete hierarchical decomposition
planner aswellasarange ofcomplexity results forpure HT Nplanners. Ourpresentation of
HL Asandangelicsemanticsisdueto Marthietal.(2007,2008). Kambhampatietal.(1998)
haveproposedanapproachinwhichdecompositionsarejustanotherformofplanrefinement,
similartotherefinementsfornon-hierarchical partial-order planning.
Beginningwiththeworkonmacro-operatorsin STRIPS,oneofthegoalsofhierarchical
planninghasbeenthereuseofpreviousplanningexperience intheformofgeneralizedplans.
The technique of explanation-based learning, described in depth in Chapter 19, has been
applied in several systems as a means of generalizing previously computed plans, including
SOAR (Laird etal.,1986) and PRODIGY (Carbonell etal.,1989). Analternative approach is
to store previously computed plans in their original form and then reuse them to solve new,
similarproblems by analogy to the original problem. Thisis theapproach taken by thefield
CASE-BASED called case-based planning (Carbonell, 1983; Alterman, 1988; Hammond, 1989). Kamb-
PLANNING
hampati (1994) argues that case-based planning should be analyzed as a form of refinement
planning andprovidesaformalfoundation forcase-based partial-order planning.
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 433
Early planners lacked conditionals and loops, but some could use coercion to form
conformant plans. Sacerdoti s NOAH solved the keysandboxes problem, aplanning chal-
lenge problem in which the planner knows little about the initial state, using coercion. Ma-
son (1993) argued that sensing o