ical diagnosis system then each candidate case (diagnosis) would state what features are more important for it to be true. N ad Maximum Another simple aggregation function takes the maximum of the local similarities, ,,,, Maximum ((sim(v,;, Vz). Sim(V12, V2), ---. SIM(V1y, V2y)) or the weighted local similarities, D maximun(w,-sim(v,,. Vz1). Wystm(V1, Vz), -.-. W, SIV, V ,)) wimax The (weighted) maximum aggregation brings a case into contention, even if only one of its attributes matches very well. One can obtain progressively more demanding similarity functions by including the second highest local similarity (Max-2), the third highest (Max-3), and so on. Formally, let us arrange the local similarities between the two cases in decreasing order of magnitude, (h;, hz, ..., hj). We have renamed the values to h; only to highlight the fact that the list contains the highest, the second highest and so on in decreasing order. The different aggregation functions can then be defined as, Omax-k hy Thus, Max-k aggregation says that one should look at the similarity of the kK attribute when they are arranged in decreasing order of local similarity. Since the cases are selected based on their global similarity score, another way of looking at Max-k aggregation is that at least k attributes should have a high match. Minimum The minimum aggregation function is the opposite of maximum aggregation. ,,,. Minimum ((sim(v4,, V21), SIM(Y42, V22), --- SMV V )) or the weighted local similarities, ,, min Minimum (w,sim(v1 1. 21). W2-SIM(Y,y, Voz), --- Wy SIM(V , V2,)) The (weighted) minimum aggregation is the strictest possible aggregation function. It says that the global similarity is equal to the lowest local similarity. Even if one attribute does not match well, the case goes out of contention. All attributes should match well with this aggregation function. Analogous to the Max-k aggregation, we can also define Min-k aggregation functions that are progressively less strict. The forma