 or infinite length, where a string is constructed by concatenating basic atomic elements called symbols. The finite set v of symbols of the language is called the alphabet or vocabulary. Among all possible strings that can be generated from v are those that are wellformed, the sentences (such as the sentences found in a language like English). Well-formed sentences are constructed using a set of rules called a grammar. A grammar G is a formal specification of the sentence structures that are allowable in the language, and the language generated by the grammar G is denoted by 1(G). More formally, we define a grammar G as G = (v.v.s,p) where v,, is a set of nonterminal symbols, v1 a set of terminal symbols, s is a starting symbol, and p is a finite set of productions or rewrite rules. The alphabet v is the union of the disjoint sets v, and v, which includes the empty string e. The terminals v1.are symbols which cannot be decomposed further (such as adjectives, nouns or verbs in English), whereas the nonterminals can be decomposed (such as a noun or verb phrase). A general production rule from P has the form xv: xw: where x. y. :, and w are strings from v. This rule states that v should be rewritten as w in the context of x to z where x and can be any string including the empty string e. As an example of a simple grammar G, we choose one which has component pans or constituents from English with vocabulary Q given by QM = {S, NP, N, VP, V. ART} Q.1 {boy, popsicle, frog, ate, kissed, flew, the, a} and rewrite rules given by 232 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 P: S .NPVP NP ART N VP V NP N - boy I popsicle I frog V -ate i kissed I flew ART I' the I a where the vertical bar indicates alternative choices. S is the initial symbol (for sentence here), NP stands for noun phrase.. VP stands for verb phrase. N stands for noun. V is an abbreviation for verb, and ART stands for article. The grammar (i defined above generates only a small fraction of English, but it illustra