ion of difference or distance defined on strings. Levenshtein Distance One measure of difference in strings is the notion of edit distance, which counts the number of changes one has to make to convert one string into another (Levenshtein, 1966). For example, given the two strings, S7: brick and mortar S2: click and portal one can be changed into the other by changing four letters in either string. In addition to substituting characters, one may also allow deletion and insertion of characters. This will allow us to compare strings of different lengths. For example, given the strings, S3 : nuclear energy is safe S4: nuclear energy is unsafe S3 can be converted into Sy, by inserting the characters un in S4. However, as discussed in Chapter 5, the number of ways a string of length ncan be aligned with a string of length m, when insertions and deletions is allowed, is the number of distinct paths in an n 1 by m 1 rectangular grid, with diagonals from left to right as well. The number of such paths is P(m, n), which can be prohibitively large as the strings become longer. Consequently, a simpler similarity function is desirable. Hamming Distance One simple form of edit distance is the Hamming distance. This distance measure counts the number of locations where the two strings differ, and is defined for strings of equal length (Hamming, 1950). The distance between strings S; and Sp is four, while it is not defined for strings S3and S4. One could in principle pad the shorter string with blanks, but the resulting measure of distance may not be intuitively acceptable. Hamming distance is also a metric. That is, it satisfies the properties , 1. d(X, Y)20 (non-negativity) 2. d(X, Y) 0 if and only if X Y (identity of indiscernibles) 3. d(X, Y) d(Y, X) (symmetry) 4. d(X, Z) d(X, Y) d(Y, Z) (triangle inequality). The maximum possible Hamming distance between two strings of length n, is n. Let h be the hamming distance between two strings. Then, the normalized hamming distance h i