 1973) or (lou and Gonzales. 1974). Syntactic Classification The s)ntactic recognition approach is based on the uniqueness of syntactic "structure'' among the object classes. With this approach, a grammar similar to the grammars defined in Chapter 10 or the generative grammars of Chapter 12 is defined for object descriptions. Instead of defining the grammar in terms of an alphabet of characters or terminal words, the vocabulary is based on shape primitives, For example, the objects depicted in Figure 13.4 could be defined using the grammar G(r'_ t',. p, s), where the terminals i, consist of the following shape primitives. Vr: a e /''\ I bt ,...- g ) Sec. 13.3 Learning Classification Patterns 277 A A aafagaad6ccid ( B eghf () (). C =eghf o F f i g o u bj r e e c t 1 s 3 . .4 Syntactic characterization Using syntactic analysis, that is parsing and analyzing the string structures, classification is accomplished by assigning an object to class C1 when the string describing it has been generated by the grammar Q. This requires that the string be recognized as a member of the language L(G). If there are only two classes, it is sufficient to have a single grammar G (two grammars. are needed when strings of neither class can occur). When classification fore ^_2 classes is required. c I (ore) different grammars are needed for class recognition. The decision functions in this case are based on grammar ,recognition functions which choose class C, if the pattern string is found to be generated by grammar G. that is. if it is a member of L(G). Patterns not recognized as a member of a defined language are indeterminate. When patterns are noisy or subject to random fluctuations, ambiguities may occur since patterns belonging to different classes may appear to he the same. In such cases, stochastic or fuzzy grammars may be used. Classification for these to cases may be made on the basis of least cost transform an input string into a valid recognizable string, by the degree of class