be it. Impossible object configurations such as the one illustrated in Figure 14.21 can also be detected. Geometric constraints, together with a consiste Plabeling scheme, can greatly simplify the object identification process. A set of labeling rules which greatly facilitates this process can be developed for different classes of objects. For example. using the labels described above, the following rules will apply for many polyhedral Y L The L The T The fork The X x. T A The arrow The psi The peak The multi I Fi* 14.19 Three-dimensional ---> "* j4yhedrat junction types. Sec. 14.4 Describing and Labeling Objects 309 L L L L LL L typea YYYYY Fork ty I 4 I t Ypes - \ Arrow types /+- j + /-+ \ / 1 Figure 14.20 Valid junction labels for three-dimcn'iona I shapes. Figure 14.21 Example ot an iophte object. objects: ( I ) the arrow should be directed to mark boundaries by traversing the object in a clockwise direction (the object face appears on the right of the arrow). (2) unbroken lines should have the same label assigned at both ends. (3) when a fork is labeled with a edge, it must have all three edges labeled as +, and (4) arrow junctions which have a -. label on both barb edges must also have a + label on the shaft. These rules can he applied to a polygonal object as illustrated in Figure 14.22. El Figure 14.22 Example of object labeling. 310 Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 Starting with any edge having an object face on its right, the external boundary is labeled with the in a clockwise direction. Interior lines are then labeled with + or - consistent with the other labeling rules. Filtering with Constraint Satisfaction Continuing with this early work, David Waltz developed a method of vertex constraint propagation which establishes the permissible types of vertices that can be associated with a certain class of objects. He broadened the class of images that could be analyzed by relaxing lighting conditions and extending the labeling vocabulary to accommodate sh