. super) Osub Osuper or (Osup: P. sub) ( Osupers P. super) Osub Osuper The orderings induced by the subset relations for sets of objects is the opposite of the ordering induced by the subset relation on the sets of attributes in the lattice. This connection between the two is known as the antitone Galois connection, after the French mathematician Evariste Galois. Any one of them can uniquely determine the lattice, which is also known as Treillis de Galois . The lattice for the concepts in the context defined in Table 14.1 is shown in Figure 14.33 below. The diagram is a Hasse diagram used to depict partially ordered sets. The Hasse diagram uses undirected edges with the convention that if C, Cz and there is no C,, such that C, Cm Cz then C1 is drawn below C5. No transitive edges are drawn. When an edge links C1 and Cy and C, Cz then C, is called the successor or lower neighbour of Cz and Cz is called the predecessor or upper neighbour of C1. Successor(C1,Cz) (Cy C2) and there is no Cx such that (C, Cn) and (Cm S Cz) The top-level concept contains the set of all objects depicted conventionally by ABCDE " and the associated set of properties, which in this example, is the empty set. Likewise, the least concept contains the set of all properties, depicted by 1234, and the associated set of objects, which in this example is the empty set. In the line diagram in Figure 14.33, each formal concept is labelled with both the set of objects and the set of properties. While the labelling in the above diagram is explicit, and one can read off the constituents of a concept at each node, it can become cluttered if the context is large. The following observation can lead to a simpler labelling. If an object occurs in a concept then it also occurs in any concept higher in the lattice. This follows from the definition of the ordering relation between formal concepts. Further, it can be seen that a subgraph of concepts containing an object g has a unique infimum. This node can then b