ure 20.3. The items in the figure labeled as voltage-value3, current-value-3, and resistance-value-3 represent specific values of voltage, current, and resistance. respectively. The important features of Winston's system can be summarized as follows: 1. Knowledge representation: Winston's system used frame structures as part of the Frame Representation Language (FRL) developed by Roberts and Goldstein (1977). Slots within the frames were given special meanings, such as AKO. appearsin, and the like. Individual frames were linked together in a network for easy access to related items. 2. Recall of analogous Situations: When presented with a current situation. candidate analogues were retrieved from memory using an hierarchical indexing scheme. This was accomplished by storing a situations (frame) name in the slots of all object frames that appeared in the situation. For example, in the Cinderella story, the prince is one of the central parts. Therefore, prince would be used as a node in a hierarchical tree structure with subtinks pru n Ce .AKO-man--.,A KOpersor and the Cinderella label Cl would be stored in an appears-in slot of the frames belonging to the prince, the man, and the person. These slots were always searched as part of the recall reminding process when looking for candidate analogues. 3. Similarity matching: In selecting the best of the known Situations during the reminding process described above, a similarity matching score is computed for each of the recalled candidates. A score is cor-puted for all slot pairings between two frames, and the pairing having the highest score is selected as the proper analogue. The scoring takes into account the number of values that match between slots as Analogical and Explanation-Based Learning Chap. 20 422 S Iw r.fl,re, de S, variable 1 prore pi lw voltagevaluei proportional aolge indec, Variable flow flow pipe law I now I currentvaluei I. I atle multiplier electriccurrent ji Lrmitae pipe law resiflkt S re Si Staftt V