l. A robust solution is one that works no matter what actual values occur,
providedtheyarewithintheassumedinterval. Anextremeformofrobustmethodisthecon-
formant planningapproach given in Chapter11 it produces plans that work with nostate
information atall.
FINE-MOTION Here, we look at a robust method that is used for fine-motion planning (or FMP) in
PLANNING
robotic assembly tasks. Fine-motion planning involves moving a robot arm in very close
proximity to a static environment object. The main difficulty with fine-motion planning is
Section25.5. Planning Uncertain Movements 995
initial Cv
configuration
motion v
envelope
Figure25.19 Atwo-dimensionalenvironment,velocityuncertaintycone,andenvelopeof
possiblerobotmotions. Theintendedvelocityis v, butwithuncertaintytheactualvelocity
couldbeanywherein Cv,resultinginafinalconfigurationsomewhereinthemotionenvelope,
whichmeanswewouldn tknowifwehittheholeornot.
initial
Cv
configuration
v
motion
envelope
Figure25.20 Thefirstmotioncommandandtheresultingenvelopeofpossiblerobotmo-
tions. No matter what the error, we know the final configuration will be to the left of the
hole.
thattherequiredmotionsandtherelevantfeaturesoftheenvironmentareverysmall. Atsuch
smallscales,therobotisunabletomeasureorcontrolitspositionaccuratelyandmayalsobe
uncertain of the shape of the environment itself; we will assume that these uncertainties are
all bounded. The solutions to FMP problems will typically be conditional plans or policies
thatmakeuseofsensorfeedbackduringexecutionandareguaranteedtoworkinallsituations
consistent withtheassumeduncertainty bounds.
A fine-motion plan consists of a series of guarded motions. Each guarded motion
GUARDEDMOTION
consistsof(1)amotioncommandand(2)aterminationcondition,whichisapredicateonthe
robot s sensor values, and returns true to indicate the end of the guarded move. The motion
commands are typically compliant motions that allow the effector to slide if the motion
COMPLIANTMOTION
commandwouldcausecollisionwith