tations as well, we use two steps. We train a regression procedure
to estimate the best orientation of any face present in a window. Now, for each window, we
estimatetheorientation, reorientthewindow,thentestwhetheraverticalfaceispresentwith
ourclassifier. Allthisyieldsasystemwhosearchitecture issketched in Figure24.12.
Training data is quite easily obtained. There are several data sets of marked-up face
images, and rotated face windows are easy to build (just rotate a window from a training
data set). One trick that is widely used is to take each example window, then produce new
examples by changing the orientation of the window, the center of the window, or the scale
very slightly. This is an easy way of getting a bigger data set that reflects real images fairly
well; the trick usually improves performance significantly. Face detectors built along these
linesnowperform verywellforfrontalfaces(sideviewsare harder).
944 Chapter 24. Perception
Non-maximal
suppresion
Image Responses Detections
Estimate
orientation
Correct Rotate
Features Classifier
illumination window
Figure 24.12 Face finding systems vary, but most follow the architecture illustrated in
two parts here. On the top, we go from images to responses, then apply non-maximum
suppressionto findthestrongestlocalresponse. Theresponsesareobtainedbytheprocess
illustratedonthebottom. Wesweepawindowoffixedsizeoverlargerandsmallerversions
of the image, so as to find smaller or larger faces, respectively. The illumination in the
window is corrected, and then a regression engine (quite often, a neural net) predicts the
orientationofthe face. Thewindowiscorrectedto thisorientationandthen presentedto a
classifier. Classifieroutputsarethenpostprocessedtoensurethatonlyonefaceisplacedat
eachlocationintheimage.
24.3.1 Complexappearance andpattern elements
Many objects produce much more complex patterns than faces do. This is because several
effectscanmovefeaturesaroundinanimageoftheobject. Effectsinclude (Figure24.13) Fore