e self awareness with life and require it to be a necessary criterion for intelligence then in effect we would be denying the computer the property of being intelligent; not because it cannot do something that one would expect of an intelligent agent, but because it is artificial. One would have observed that definitions of intelligence are usually human centric. This may be simply because as humans, we can see life only from our own perspective. 1.3.1 The Turing Test Perhaps, in order to circumvent the debate on intelligence and get on with the business of building machines that are intelligent, Alan Turing, prescribed a test to determine whether a machine (computer program) is intelligent (Turing, 1950). Turing himself felt that the question Can machines think? was meaningless. Instead, he proposed what he called The Imitation Game played between a man (A), a woman (B) and an interrogator (C), who can communicate with each other only through text messages. The interrogator knows A and B only as X and Y, and her (or his) task is to correctly label X and Y with A and B, by means of asking them questions. In the game, A tries to mislead the interrogator. Turing then asks what would happen if a machine replaces the man in the role of A? lf the interrogator decides wrongly as often as when A was the man then we could say that the machine was intelligent. This test has since come to be known as the Turing Test, and one can visualize it today as being played in a chat room with the interrogator chatting with the two entities. In the paper, Turing (1950) anticipates various objections and offers rebuttals for them. He also says, I believe that in about fifty years time, it will be possible to program computers, with a storage capacity of about 109, to make them play the imitation game so well that an average interrogator will not have more than 70 percent chance of making the right identification after five minutes of questioning. ... believe that at the end of the centur