lausal normal forms. To perform automated inference or theorem proving, the resolution method requires that the set of axioms and the conjecture to be proved be in clausal form. Resolution is important because it provides the means to mechanically derive conclusions that are valid. Programs using resolution methods have been developed for numerous systems with varying degrees of success, and the language PROLOG is based on the use of such resolution proofs. FOPL has without question become one of the leading methods for knowledge representation. In addition to valid forms of inference based on deductive methods, three invalid, but useful, types of inferencing were also presented, abductive, inductive, and analogical: Finally, rules, a subset of FOPL, were described as a popular representation scheme. As will be seen in Chapter 15, many expert systems use rules for their knowledge bases. Rules provide a convenient means of incrementally building a knowledge base in an easily understood language. EXERCISES 4.1 Construct a truth table for the expression (A & (A V B)). What single term is this expression equivalent to? 4.2 Prove the following rules from Section 4.2. (a) Simplification: From P & Q. infer P (b) Conjunction: From P and Q. infer & Q (C) Transposition: From P -. Q. infer Q 1-' 78 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 4.3 Given the following PL expressions, place parentheses in the appropriate places to form fully abbreviated wffs. (a)7'VQ&R 'S--U&Q (b) P & Q V P -. (I -. R (c)QVPVR&S U&PR 4.4 Translate the following axioms into predicate calculus wffs. For eample, A1 below could be given as Vx,y,z CONNECTED(X,y,z) & Bikesok(z) -. GETTO(x.y) Al. If town x is connected to town y by highway z, and bicycles are allowed on you can get toy from x by bike. A2. If town .r is connected toy by z, y is connected to x by z. A3. If you can get to y from x. and you can get to z from y. you can get to from X. A4. Town-A is connected to Town-B by Road-I. A5. Town-B is connecte