ight make this seem trivial, but in fact, game theory is serious busi-
ness. It is used in decision-making situations including the auctioning of oil drilling rights
and wireless frequency spectrum rights, bankruptcy proceedings, product development and
pricingdecisions,andnationaldefense situations involvingbillionsofdollarsandhundreds
ofthousands oflives. Asingle-movegameisdefinedbythreecomponents: Players oragents who will be making decisions. Two-player games have received the
PLAYER
mostattention, although n-player games for n 2are also common. Wegive players
capitalized names,like Aliceand Bobor O and E. Actionsthattheplayerscanchoose. Wewillgiveactionslowercasenames,likeone or
ACTION
testify. Theplayersmayormaynothavethesamesetofactionsavailable. Apayoff function that gives the utility toeach player foreach combination of actions
PAYOFFFUNCTION
by all the players. Forsingle-move games the payoff function can be represented by a
matrix, a representation known as the strategic form (also called normal form). The
STRATEGICFORM
payoffmatrixfortwo-finger Morraisasfollows:
O:one O:two
E:one E 2,O 2 E 3,O 3
E:two E 3,O 3 E 4,O 4
Forexample, the lower-right corner shows that when player O chooses action two and
E alsochoosestwo,thepayoffis 4for E and 4for O.
Each player in a game must adopt and then execute a strategy (which is the name used in
STRATEGY
gametheoryforapolicy). Apurestrategyisadeterministicpolicy;forasingle-movegame,
PURESTRATEGY
a pure strategy is just a single action. Formany games an agent can do better with a mixed
strategy, which is a randomized policy that selects actions according to aprobability distri-
MIXEDSTRATEGY
bution. The mixed strategy that chooses action a with probability p and action b otherwise
is written p:a;(1 p):b . For example, a mixed strategy for two-finger Morra might be 0.5:one;0.5:two . A strategy profile is an assignment of a strategy to each player; given
STRATEGYPROFILE
thestrategyprofile,thegame soutcomeisanumericvaluef