 However, the story N, does allow for a new event to be added to the knowledge base, for example that Lavanya deflates his bike at time t,. V. Happens(deflate(lavanya7, bicycle39), t,) Our knowledge base will still be consistent. The conclusion, however, that Nikhil is at will no longer be entailed. If we had used the second narrative No, then the addition of the new fact of Lavanya deflating the bike would have made the knowledge base inconsistent. This is because an action with preconditions in fact implies the preconditions when it happens (see Chapter 10). Thus, the following is an axiom, A8: Happens(ride(P, B, S, D), T) D HoldsAt(inflated(B), T) which would have led us to conclude both that the bike is deflated (thanks to Lavanya) as well inflated (since the bike ride happened) at the same time point t7, which is a contradiction?2. In the classic Yale shooting problem that has been discussed in the event calculus literature, the intention of killing is represented by the shoot action, and the implicit killing event uses the loaded fluent as a precondition. Thus, the intention of killing (Shooting) leads to the actual killing event only when the gun is loaded. More importantly, the shoot action is possible even without the precondition being true, and can be executed even when the gun is not loaded, though it does not result in the implicit event of killing. In our description, we have separated the intention as the planToRide action, which leads to success only when the bike is inflated and the person is at the source, but when it does work it leads to the ride event happening via a trigger axiom. If the preconditions do not hold the planToRide event can still happen, though it would not result in the ride event happening. Random Events Deflation of the (tyres of the) bike need not only happen due to adversarial action. It could happen due to the tyres coming into contact with a sharp object such as a nail or a pointed stone, which may or may not result in defl