ayarea).
14.3 EFFICIENT REPRESENTATION OF CONDITIONAL DISTRIBUTIONS
Evenifthe maximumnumberofparents k issmallish, filling inthe CP Tforanode requires
upto O(2k)numbersandperhapsagreatdealofexperiencewithallthepossibleconditioning
cases. Infact,thisisaworst-case scenario inwhichtherelationship betweentheparents and
the child is completely arbitrary. Usually, such relationships are describable by a canonical
CANONICAL distributionthatfitssomestandardpattern. Insuchcases,thecompletetablecanbespecified
DISTRIBUTION
bynamingthepatternandperhaps supplying afewparameters much easierthansupplying
anexponential numberofparameters.
DETERMINISTIC The simplest example is provided by deterministic nodes. A deterministic node has
NODES
its value specified exactly by the values of its parents, with no uncertainty. The relationship
canbealogicalone: forexample,therelationship betweentheparentnodes Canadian,US,
Mexican and the child node North American is simply that the child is the disjunction of
the parents. The relationship can also be numerical: for example, if the parent nodes are
the prices of a particular model of car at several dealers and the child node is the price that
a bargain hunter ends up paying, then the child node is the minimum of the parent values;
or if the parent nodes are a lake s inflows (rivers, runoff, precipitation) and outflows (rivers,
evaporation, seepage)andthechildisthechangeinthewaterlevelofthelake,thenthevalue
ofthechildisthesumoftheinflowparents minusthesumoftheoutflowparents.
Uncertain relationships can often be characterized by so-called noisy logical relation-
ships. The standard example is the noisy-OR relation, which is a generalization of the log-
NOISY-OR
ical OR. In propositional logic, we might say that Fever is true if and only if Cold, Flu, or
Malaria is true. The noisy-OR model allows for uncertainty about the ability of each par-
ent to cause the child to be true the causal relationship between parent and child may be
Section14.3. Ef