 returns true to indicate the end of the guarded move. The motion
commands are typically compliant motions that allow the effector to slide if the motion
COMPLIANTMOTION
commandwouldcausecollisionwithanobstacle. Asanexample,Figure25.19showsatwo-
dimensional configuration space with a narrow vertical hole. It could be the configuration
space forinsertion ofarectangular pegintoaholeoracarkeyintotheignition. Themotion
commandsareconstant velocities. Thetermination conditions arecontact withasurface. To
modeluncertainty incontrol, weassumethatinsteadofmovinginthecommandeddirection,
the robot s actual motion lies in the cone C about it. The figure shows what would happen
v
996 Chapter 25. Robotics
Cv
v
motion
envelope
Figure25.21 Thesecondmotioncommandandtheenvelopeofpossiblemotions. Even
witherror,wewilleventuallygetintothehole.
if we commanded a velocity straight down from the initial configuration. Because of the
uncertainty in velocity, the robot could move anywhere in the conical envelope, possibly
going into the hole, but more likely landing to one side of it. Because the robot would not
thenknowwhichsideoftheholeitwason,itwouldnotknowwhichwaytomove.
A more sensible strategy is shown in Figures 25.20 and 25.21. In Figure 25.20, the
robotdeliberatelymovestoonesideofthehole. Themotioncommandisshowninthefigure,
and the termination test is contact with any surface. In Figure 25.21, a motion command is
given that causes the robot to slide along the surface and into the hole. Because all possible
velocities inthemotionenvelope aretotheright, therobot willslidetotherightwheneverit
is in contact with a horizontal surface. It will slide down the right-hand vertical edge of the
holewhenittouches it,becauseallpossiblevelocities aredownrelativetoaverticalsurface.
It will keep moving until it reaches the bottom of the hole, because that is its termination
condition. In spite of the control uncertainty, all possible trajectories of the robot terminate
incontactwiththebottomofthe