The smaller
thehypothesis, theeasieritistofind.
In addition to allowing the use of prior knowledge in induction, ILP systems can formulate
hypotheses in general first-order logic, rather than in the restricted attribute-based language
of Chapter18. Thismeans thatthey canlearn inenvironments that cannot be understood by
simplersystems.
19.3 EXPLANATION-BASED LEARNING
Explanation-based learning is a method for extracting general rules from individual obser-
vations. As an example, consider the problem of differentiating and simplifying algebraic
expressions (Exercise 9.17). If we differentiate an expression such as X2 with respect to
X, we obtain 2X. (We use a capital letter for the arithmetic unknown X, to distinguish it
from the logical variable x.) In a logical reasoning system, the goal might be expressed as
ASK(Derivative(X2,X) d, KB),withsolutiond 2X.
Anyonewhoknowsdifferentialcalculuscanseethissolution byinspection asaresult
ofpracticeinsolvingsuchproblems. Astudentencounteringsuchproblemsforthefirsttime,
or a program with no experience, will have a much more difficult job. Application of the
standard rules of differentiation eventually yields the expression 1 (2 (X(2 1))), and
eventually this simplifies to 2X. In the authors logic programming implementation, this
takes 136 proof steps, of which 99 are on dead-end branches in the proof. After such an
experience, we would like the program to solve the same problem much more quickly the
nexttimeitarises.
The technique of memoization has long been used in computer science to speed up
MEMOIZATION
programs by saving the results of computation. The basic idea of memo functions is to
accumulate a database of input output pairs; when the function is called, it first checks the
database to see whether it can avoid solving the problem from scratch. Explanation-based
learning takes this a good deal further, by creating general rules that cover an entire class
of cases. In the case of differentiation, memoization would rem