hter pilots), and (3) the Strategic Computing Program (an Al based military supercomputer project). In addition, most of the larger high-tech companies such as IBM. DEC. AT&T. Hewlett Packard. Texas Instruments, and Xerox have their own research programs. A number of smaller companies also have reputable research programs. Who will emerge as the principal leaders in this race for superiority -in the production and sale of that commodity known as knowledge? If forward vision. and commitment to purpose are to be the determining factors, then surely the Japanese will be among the leaders if not the leader. Just how the United States and other leading countries of the world will fare remains to be seen. One thing is clear. The future of a country is closely tied to the commitment it is willing to make in funding research programs in Al. Sec. 1.3 Early Work in Al 5 1.3 EARLY WORK IN Al As noted above, Al began to emerge as a separate field of study during the 1940s and 1950s when the computer became a commercial reality. Prior to this time, a number of important areas of research that would later help to shape early Al work were beginning to mature. These developments all began to converge during this period. First, there was the work of logicians such as Alonzo Church, Kurt Godel, Emil Post, and Alan Turing. They were carrying on earlier work in logic initiated by Whitehead and Russell. Tas'ski. and Kleene. This work began in earnest, during the 1920s and 1930s. It helped to produce formalized methods for reasoning, the form of logic known as propositional and predicate calculus. It demonstrated that facts and ideas from a language such as English could be formally described and manipulated mechanically in meaningful ways. Turing, sometimes regarded as the father of Al. also demonstrated, as early as 1936, that a simple computer processor ('later named the Turing machine) could manipulate symbols as well as numbers. Second, the new field of cybernetics, a name coined by