 Itcanbesafely skipped bythosewho
arewillingtotakeitonfaith.
REFUTATION Weshowthatresolution isrefutation-complete, whichmeansthatifasetofsentences
COMPLETENESS
is unsatisfiable, then resolution will always be able to derive a contradiction. Resolution
cannot be used to generate all logical consequences of a set of sentences, but it can be used
toestablish that agivensentence isentailed bythesetofsentences. Hence, itcanbeusedto
findallanswerstoagivenquestion, Q(x),byprovingthat KB Q(x)isunsatisfiable.
Wetakeitasgiventhatanysentenceinfirst-orderlogic(withoutequality)canberewrit-
ten as a set of clauses in CNF.This can be proved by induction on the form of the sentence,
using atomic sentences as the base case (Davis and Putnam, 1960). Our goal therefore is to
prove the following: if S is an unsatisfiable set of clauses, then the application of a finite
numberofresolution stepsto S willyieldacontradiction.
Our proof sketch follows Robinson s original proof with some simplifications from
Genesereth and Nilsson(1987). Thebasicstructure oftheproof(Figure9.13)isasfollows:
1. First, we observe that if S is unsatisfiable, then there exists a particular set of ground
instancesoftheclausesof Ssuchthatthissetisalsounsatisfiable(Herbrand stheorem).
2. Wethenappealtothegroundresolutiontheoremgivenin Chapter7,whichstatesthat
propositional resolution iscompleteforgroundsentences.
3. Wethen usealiftinglemmatoshowthat, foranypropositional resolution proof using
the set of ground sentences, there is a corresponding first-order resolution proof using
thefirst-ordersentences fromwhichthegroundsentences wereobtained.
Section9.5. Resolution 351
Any set of sentences S is representable in clausal form
Assume S is unsatisfiable, and in clausal form
Herbrand s theorem
Some set S' of ground instances is unsatisfiable
Ground resolution
theorem
Resolution can find a contradiction in S'
Lifting lemma
There is a resolution proof for the contradiction in S'
Figure9.13 Structureofacompletenessprooff