et unspecified actions. A third argument for the use of the CD representation is that unspecified elements of the representation of one piece of, information can be used as a focus for the understanding of later events as they are encountered. So, for example, after hearing that Bill threatened John with a broken nose. we might expect to find out what action Bill was trying to prevent John from performing. That action could then be substituted for the dummy action represented in Fig. 10.4 as do,. The presence of such dummy objects provides clues as to what other events or objects are important for the understanding of the known event. Of course, there are also arguments against the use of CD as a representation formalism. For one thing, it requires that all knowledge be decomposed into fairly low-level primitives. In Section 4.3.3 we discussed how this may be inefficient or perhaps even impossible in some situations. As Schank and Owens [1987] put it, CD is a theory of representing fairly simple actions. To express, for example, John bet Sam fifty dollars that the Mets would win the World Series takes about two pages of CD forms. This does not seem reasonable. Thus, although there are several arguments in favor of the use of CD as a model for representing events, it is not always completely appropriate to do so, and jt may be worthwhile to seek out higher-level primitives. Another difficulty with the theory of conceptual dependency as a general model for the representation of knowledge is that it is only a theory of the representation of events. But to represent all the information that a complex program may need, it must be able to represent other things besides events. There have been attempts to define a set of primitives, similar to those of CD for actions, that can be used to describe other kinds of knowledge. For example, physical objects, which in CD are simply represented as atomic units, have been analyzed in Lehnert [1978]. A similar analysis of social act