to the set of hot objects, than water at 70 Celsius. Rough sets introduced a notion of modality into memberships. Thus, one can distinguish objects that definitely belong to a set from ones that may belong to it, and which definitely do not belong to it. Qualitative reasoning allows us to define quantity spaces that are determined by the properties themselves, or some task at hand. For example, water between room temperature and boiling point can be thought of as being same. Beyond the boiling point, there is a qualitative change; it becomes a vapour. We look at qualitative reasoning a little later in this chapter. We begin within the logical framework, looking at the task of making inferences in the face of incomplete information. Our main goal here is to explore ways in which we can exploit general knowledge to make inferences that will be true, more often than not. 17.1 Default Reasoning One facet of reasoning under uncertainty is known as default reasoning. This involves making inferences that are plausible or likely, but not necessarily entailed by the knowledge base. The need for default reasoning arises because of our desire to generalize connections between categories, to express them in a succinct manner. Birds fly, leaves are green, clouds indicate rain, and computer science students are bright. The trouble with such generalizations is that they have exceptions. While it is generally true that birds fly, and that is indeed useful knowledge to have, it is not true that al birds fly. A universal statement like the one below is simply not adequate. Vx (Bird(x) DFlies(x)) The moment we come up with an exception, for example a bird called Peppy who cannot fly being a penguin, Bird(peppy) Penguin(peppy) Flies(peppy) our knowledge base becomes unsatisfiable (see Exercise 12.20). And we are forced to throw away the universal implication that all birds fly. Instead, we would like to have a mechanism by which, given a knowledge base, we can make the set of plausible