, it finds two competing answers at the same level, so it can report the contradiction. Bird fly: yes isa 7 isa Ostrich Quaker Republican fly :no Pet-Bird pacifist : true pacifist : false instance, < instance instance instance Fiff fly: ? (a) (b) Fig. 9.15 Tangled Hierarchies But now consider the examples shown in Fig. 9.16. In the case of (a), our new algorithm reaches Bird (via Pet-Bird) before it reaches Ostrich. So it reports that Fifi can fly. In the case of (b), the algorithm reaches Quaker and stops without noticing a contradiction. The problem is that path length does not always correspond to the level of generality of a class. Sometimes what it really corresponds to is the degree of elaboration of classes in the knowledge base. If some regions of the knowledge base have been elaborated more fully than others, then their paths will tend to be longer. But this should not influence the result of inheritance if no new information about the desired attribute has been added. The solution to this problem is to base our inheritance algorithm not on path length but on the notion of inferential distance [Touretzky, 1986], which can be defined as follows: Class, is closer to Class, than to Class, if and only if Class, has an inference path through Class, to Class, (in other words, Class, is between Class, and Class3). Notice that inferential distance defines only a partial ordering. Some classes are incommensurate with each other under it. 204 Artificial Intelligence Bird fly : yes Ostrich fly no isa Pet-Bird Plumedje n Republican Ostrich pacifist : faise | isa White-Plumed instance Quarker Conservativesine pacifist ; tue Republican instence\ instance instance Fifi fly: ? (a) (b) Fig. 9.16 More Tangled Hierarchies We can now define the result of inheritance as follows: The set of competing values for a slot S in a frame F contains all those values that Can be derived from some frame X that is above F in the isa hierarchy e Are not contradicted by some frame Y that has