ulas or wffc (pronounced woofs) for short. Clearly, all of the wffs used above would be more meaningful if full names were used rather than abbreviations. Wffs are defined recursively as follows: - An atomic formula is a wif. If P and Q are wffs, then P, PA Q, P V Q. P -. 58 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 P +- Q, Vx P(x), and 3x P(x) are wffs. Wffs are formed only by applying the above rules a finite number of times. The above rules state that all wffs are formed from atomic formulas and the proper application of quantifiers and logical connectives. Some examples of valid wffs are MAN(john) PILOT)father-of) bri Of 3xyz ((FATHER,(x.y) & FATHER(y.z)) -. GRANDFATHER(x.z)) Va NUMBER (x) -. (3y GREATER-THAN(y.x)) Vs ty (PIX) & 0(y)) (R(a) V 0(b)) Some examples of statements that are not wffs are: VP Fix) -- Clx) MANijohn) I ether-of (0(x)) MARRIEO(MAN,WOMAN) The first group of examples above are all wffs since they are properly formed expressions composed of atoms, logical connectives, and valid quantifications. Examples in the second group fail for different reasons. In the first expression, universal quantification is applied to the predicate P(x). This is invalid in FOPL.' The second expression is invalid since the term John, a constant, is negated. Recall that predicates, and not terms are negated. The third expression is invalid since it is a function with a predicate argument. The last expression fails since it is a predicate with two predi ate arguments. Semantics for FOPI When considering specific wfis. we always have in mind some domain D. If not stated explicitly. 1) will be understood from the context. D is the set of all elements or objects from which fixed assignments are made to constants and from which the domain and range of functions are defined. The arguments of predicates must be terms (constants, variables, or functions). Therefore, the domain of each n-place predicate is also defined over D. For example, our domain might be all entities that make