ods have both leveled off, withnosolution found, wecan terminate with
failurebecause thereisnopossibility ofasubsequent changethatcouldaddasolution.
386 Chapter 10. Classical Planning
Nowallwehavetodoisprovethatthegraphandtheno-goodswillalwaysleveloff. The
keytothisproofisthatcertainproperties ofplanninggraphsaremonotonically increasingor
decreasing. Xincreases monotonically meansthat theset of Xsatleveli 1isasuperset
(notnecessarily proper)ofthesetatlevel i. Theproperties areasfollows: Literals increase monotonically: Once a literal appears at a given level, it will appear
atallsubsequent levels. Thisisbecause ofthepersistence actions; oncealiteral shows
up,persistence actionscauseittostayforever. Actionsincrease monotonically: Onceanaction appears atagiven level, itwillappear
atall subsequent levels. Thisis aconsequence of the monotonic increase ofliterals; if
thepreconditionsofanactionappearatonelevel,theywillappearatsubsequentlevels,
andthussowilltheaction. Mutexesdecreasemonotonically: Iftwoactionsaremutexatagivenlevel A ,thenthey
i
willalsobemutexforallpreviouslevelsatwhichtheybothappear. Thesameholdsfor
mutexes between literals. It might not always appear that way in the figures, because
the figures have a simplification: they display neither literals that cannot hold at level
S nor actions that cannot be executed at level A . We can see that mutexes decrease
i i
monotonically istrueifyouconsiderthattheseinvisible literalsandactionsaremutex
witheverything.
The proof can be handled by cases: if actions A and B are mutex at level A , it
i
must be because of one of the three types of mutex. The first two, inconsistent effects
and interference, are properties of the actions themselves, so if the actions are mutex
at A , they will be mutex at every level. The third case, competing needs, depends on
i
conditions at level S : that level must contain a precondition of A that is mutex with
i
a precondition of B. Now, these two preconditions can be mutex if they are ne