e,alaterstepmighthypothesizethat Mother(x,y) P(x,y). Thus,
thenewpredicate P hasitsmeaningconstrainedbythegenerationofhypotheses thatinvolve
it. Another example might lead to the constraint Father(x,y) P(x,y). In other words,
the predicate P is what we usually think of as the Parent relationship. As we mentioned
earlier, the invention of new predicates can significantly reduce the size of the definition of
thegoalpredicate. Hence,byincludingtheabilitytoinventnewpredicates,inverseresolution
systemscanoftensolvelearning problemsthatareinfeasible withothertechniques.
Someof the deepest revolutions in science come from the invention of new predicates
and functions for example, Galileo s invention of acceleration or Joule s invention of ther-
mal energy. Once these terms are available, the discovery of new laws becomes (relatively)
easy. The difficult part lies in realizing that some new entity, with a specific relationship
to existing entities, will allow an entire body of observations to be explained with a much
Section19.6. Summary 797
Father(x,y) P(x,y) x George Father(George,y) Ancestor(George,y) P(George,y) Ancestor(George,y) Figure19.14 Aninverseresolutionstepthatgeneratesanewpredicate P.
simplerandmoreeleganttheorythanpreviously existed.
Asyet,IL Psystemshavenotmadediscoveriesonthelevelof Galileoor Joule,buttheir
discoveries have been deemed publishable in the scientific literature. For example, in the
Journalof Molecular Biology,Turcotteetal.(2001)describetheautomateddiscoveryofrules
forprotein folding by the ILP program PROGOL. Many of the rules discovered by PROGOL
could havebeenderivedfrom knownprinciples, butmosthadnotbeenpreviously published
as part of a standard biological database. (See Figure 19.10 for an example.). In related
work, Srinivasan et al. (1994) dealt with the problem of discovering molecular-structure-
basedrulesforthemutagenicityofnitroaromaticcompounds. Thesecompoundsarefoundin
automobileexhaustfumes. For80 ofthecompoundsinastandarddatabas