s fair, then
a probability of 0.5 for heads is reasonable. If we know that the coin is biased, but
we do not know which way, then 0.5 for heads is again reasonable. Obviously, the
twocasesaredifferent, yettheoutcomeprobability seemsnottodistinguish them. The
Dempster Shafertheoryusesinterval-valueddegreesofbelieftorepresentanagent s
knowledgeoftheprobability ofaproposition. Probabilitymakesthesameontologicalcommitmentaslogic: thatpropositions aretrue
orfalseintheworld, eveniftheagentisuncertain astowhichisthecase. Researchers
infuzzylogichaveproposedanontologythatallowsvagueness: thataproposition can
be sortof true. Vaguenessanduncertainty areinfactorthogonal issues.
Thenextthreesubsectionstreatsomeoftheseapproachesinslightlymoredepth. Wewillnot
providedetailed technical material,butwecitereferences forfurtherstudy.
14.7.1 Rule-based methods foruncertain reasoning
Rule-based systems emerged from early work on practical and intuitive systems for logical
inference. Logicalsystemsingeneral,andlogicalrule-basedsystemsinparticular,havethree
desirable properties: Locality: In logical systems, whenever we have a rule of the form A B, we can
LOCALITY
conclude B,givenevidence A,withoutworryingaboutanyotherrules. Inprobabilistic
systems,weneedtoconsider alltheevidence. Detachment: Oncealogicalproofisfoundforaproposition B,theproposition canbe
DETACHMENT
usedregardlessofhowitwasderived. Thatis,itcanbe detachedfromitsjustification.
Indealing with probabilities, on the other hand, the source of the evidence fora belief
isimportantforsubsequent reasoning.
TRUTH- Truth-functionality: In logic, the truth of complex sentences can be computed from
FUNCTIONALITY
the truth of the components. Probability combination does not work this way, except
understrongglobalindependence assumptions.
There have been several attempts to devise uncertain reasoning schemes that retain these
advantages. The idea is to attach degrees of belief to propositions and rules and to devise
purely local schemes