ent durations. The labels for actions and propositions are not layer numbers but real values indicating start times. Given that different actions executing at the same time may span different time intervals, it also introduces a notion of an actionproposition mutex in addition to an action-action and propositionproposition mutexes of Graphplan. However, for the durative actions as defined in PDDL2.1, the mutex definition can be extended to identify more mutex relations. A new definition for mutexes was used in a system called TPSYS (Garrido et al., 2002). Two durative actions a and b in TPSYS are statically mutex, if one of the following four conditions holds. 1. AAstart-start Actions a and b cannot start together, if their at-start conditions are contradictory or an at-start effect of one conflicts with an at-start effect of the other. That is, relations s(a, b), si(a, b) and e(a, b) are disallowed. 2. AAenag-ena Actions a and b cannot end together, if their at-end conditions are contradictory or an at-end effect of one conflicts with an atend effect of the other. That is, f(a, b) or fi(a, b) or e(a, b) is disallowed. 3. AAsgtart-ena Action b cannot begin when action a ends if an at-end effects of action a conflicts with an at-start condition or effect of b. In this case, m(a, b) is disallowed. If TPSYS needs to schedule and action just after another one, it inserts an infinitesimal gap between them to make sure that the negative interaction does not happen. 4. Action a cannot start or end during the execution of action b, if any effect of action a conflicts with an overall condition of action b. For the atstart effect of a conflicting the relations d(a, b), f(a, b), and oi(a, b) and disallowed, and similarly for the at-end effect o(a, b), s(a, b) and d(a, b) are not allowed. The static proposition-proposition mutexes depend upon the actionaction mutexes as before. The static proposition-action mutex is defined as follows: 5. PA A proposition p is mutex with an act