shold level can then produce a binary image consisting of all of the objects which exceed the thresholded level. Once the binary regions are formed, they are easily delineated, separated, and marked for subsequent processing. This whole process of masking, computing, and analyzing a histogram, threshold ing, defining an area, masking, and so on can be performed in a recursive manner. The process terminates when the masks produce monomodal histograms with the image fully partitioned. Segmentation techniques based on region growing start with small atomic regions (one or a few pixels) and build coherent pixel regions in a bottom-up fashion: 304 Visual Image Understanding Chap. 14 Local features such as the intensity of a group of pixels relative to the average intensity of neighboring pixels are used as criteria for the merging operation. A low level of contrast between contiguous groups gives rise to the merging of areas, while a higher level of contrast, such as found at boundaries, provides the criteria for region segregation. Split-and-merge techniques attempt to gain the advantages of both methods. They combine top-down and bottom-up processing using both region splitting and merging until some split-merge criterion no longer exists. At each step in the process, split and merge threshold values can be compared and the appropriate operation performed. In this way, over-splitting and under-merging can be avoided. 14.4 DESCRIBING AND LABELING OBJECTS We continue in this section with further intermediate-level processing steps all aimed at building higher levels of abstraction. The processing steps here are related to describing and labeling the regions. Once the image has been segmented into disjointed regions, their shapes, spatial interrelationships, and other characteristics can be described and labeled for subsequent interpretation. This process requires that the outlines or boundaries, vertices, and surfaces of the objects he described in some way. It should be