 process is called forward chaining. This is also known as data-driven inference since input data are used to guide the direction of the inference process. For example, we can chain forward to show that when a student is encouraged, is healthy, ard has goals, the student will succeed. ENCOU RAGE D(Student) -. MOTIVATED(student) MOTIVATED(student) & HEALTHY(student) .- WORI(HARD(student) WORKHARD(student) & HASGOALS(student) -. EXCELL(student) EXCELL(student) -. SIJCCEED(atud.nt) On the other hand, when the right side of the rules is instantiated first, the left-hand conditions become subgoals. These subgoals may in turn cause sub-subgpals to be established, and so on until facts are found to match the lowest subgoal conditions. When this form of inference takes place, we say that backward chaining is performed. This form of inference is also known as goal-driven inference since an initial goal establishes the backward direction of the inferring. Sec. 15.2 Rule-Based System Architectures For example, in MYCIN the initial goal in a consultation is "Does the patient have a certain disease?" This causes subgoals to be established such as "are certain bacteria present in the patient?" Determining if certain bacteria are present may require such things as tests on cultures taken from the patient. This process of setting up subgoals to confirm a goal continues until all the subgoals are eventually satisfied or fail. If satisfied, the backward chain is established thereby confirming the main goal. When rules are executed, the resulting action may be the placement of some new facts in working memory, a request for additional information from the user. or simply the stopping of the search process. If the appropriate knowledge has been stored in the knowledge base and all required parameter values have been provided by the user, conclusions will be found and will be reported to the user. The chaining continues as long as new matches can be found between clauses in the working 