consecutive sequence of fact headers of the same rank. Facts are represented using fact headers arranged according to rank, and the headers contain, 1. aname which is the predicate and arguments that comprise the fact itself, 2. an index i, giving the position of the fact in the fact array, 3. abit mask, which is a fact spike vector in which the ? bit is set and all other bits are unset, 4. areference identifying its achieving No-op, 5. an action spike vector of consumers with bits set for all the actions which use this fact as a precondition, and 6. a fact-level package storing the layer dependent information about that fact. An action header is likewise made up of, 1. the name of the action, 2. an index j giving the position of the action in the action array, 3. abit mask which is an action spike vector in which the bit is set and all other bits are unset, 4. a flag indicating whether the action is a No-op, 5. three fact spike vectors, called precs, adds and dels, and 6. an action level package storing the layer dependent information about that action. For every action, the precs spike vector marks the preconditions of the action. The spike is a fact spike with the preconditions of the action set as 1 and the rest as 0. Thus, testing for applicability of the action is done by a bit-level logical operation. Similarly, the adds spike marks the add effects, and de s marks the delete effects of the action. The above information associated with facts and actions is layer independent information. The rank associated with every fact or action only indicates the first layer in which they appear. The layer-dependent information is stored in a fact-level package and an action-level package. The fact-level package is an array of pairs, one for each rank in the spike. The pair is made up of, 1. a Fact Mutex Vector (FMV), mvecs, which is a fact-spike vector indicating which facts the given fact is mutex with, and 2. an Achievement Vector (AV) which is an action spike indicatin