ethirdinputisacarrybit. Thefirstoutputisthesum,and
thesecondoutputisacarrybitforthenextadder. Thecircuitcontainstwo XO Rgates,two
AN Dgates,andone ORgate.
310 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
signal on theoutput terminal thatflowsalong another wire. Todetermine whatthese signals
will be, we need to know how the gates transform their input signals. There are four types
ofgates: AND,OR,and XO Rgateshave twoinput terminals, and NO Tgates have one. All
gateshaveoneoutputterminal. Circuits, likegates,haveinputandoutput terminals.
Toreason about functionality and connectivity, we do not need to talk about the wires
themselves, the paths they take, or the junctions where they come together. All that matters
is the connections between terminals we can say that one output terminal is connected to
anotherinputterminalwithouthavingtosaywhatactuallyconnectsthem. Otherfactorssuch
asthesize,shape, color,orcostofthevariouscomponents areirrelevant toouranalysis.
Ifourpurpose weresomething otherthan verifying designs atthegatelevel, theontol-
ogywouldbedifferent. Forexample,ifwewereinterested in debugging faultycircuits, then
it would probably be a good idea to include the wires in the ontology, because a faulty wire
cancorruptthesignalflowingalongit. Forresolvingtiming faults,wewouldneedtoinclude
gate delays. If we were interested in designing a product that would be profitable, then the
costofthecircuitanditsspeedrelativetootherproductsonthemarketwouldbeimportant.
Decideonavocabulary
Wenowknowthatwewanttotalkaboutcircuits,terminals,signals,andgates. Thenextstep
istochoose functions, predicates, and constants torepresent them. First, weneed tobeable
to distinguish gates from each other and from other objects. Each gate is represented as an
objectnamedbyaconstant, aboutwhichweassertthatitisagatewith,say,Gate(X ). The
1
behavior of each gate is determined by its type: one of the constants AND,OR, XOR, or
NOT. Because a gate has exactly one type, a function is appropriate: Type(X ) XOR.
1