lauses each with an average ol four if .. then conditions per clause and a knowledge base with 200 ules. Each rule has an avereage of five conditions. What is the time complexity of a matching algorithm which performs exhaustive matching? 10.17. Estimate the average time savings if the RETE algorithm wals used in the previous problem. 10. 18. Write a PROLOG program that determines if two eis match exactly 10.19. Write a PROLOG program that determines if two sets match except possibly for the first elements of each set. II Knowledge Organization and Management We have seen how important the choice of a suitable representation an he in the solution of knowledge-based problems. When a good representation i chosen for a class of problems, the solution process can be greatly simplified. A poor representation can lead to excessive effort or even failure. Another factor which can have a significant impact on the ease with which problems are solved is the accessibility of the knowledge. By accessibility, we mean the ease and the reliability sith which a specific set of knowledge can he selectively found and retrieved for use over extended periods of time. The problem of access is closely related to and dependent on the way in which the knowledge is organized and maintained in memory. Through appropriate structuring of the knowledge, the retrieal process can be greatly expedited But a memory organization for an intelligent system must not he a Static one, In order to be effective, it must he dynamic. since knowledge will continuall chai.ge with modifications to the environment. New knoowwleleddggee must be integrated th the old, and outmoded knowledge must be modified or forgotten. This requires continual reorganization of the knowledge. Knowledge-based systems tend to require large amounts of knowledge. And. as knowledge bases increase in size and complexity, the access problem becomes more difficult. The time to search.- test, select, and retrieve a minimal amount of requi