evelop a remarkably accurate evaluator that is used with a search to depth 2
or 3. After playing more than a million training games against itself, Tesauro s program,
TD-GAMMON,iscompetitivewithtophumanplayers. Theprogram sopinionsontheopen-
ingmovesofthegamehaveinsomecasesradicallyalteredthe receivedwisdom.
Go is the most popular board game in Asia. Because the board is 19 19 and moves are
GO
allowed into (almost) every empty square, the branching factor starts at 361, which is too
daunting for regular alpha beta search methods. In addition, it is difficult to write an eval-
uation function because control of territory is often very unpredictable until the endgame.
Therefore thetopprograms, suchas MOGO,avoid alpha beta search andinstead use Monte
Carlorollouts. Thetrickistodecidewhatmovestomakeinthecourseoftherollout. Thereis
noaggressive pruning; allmovesarepossible. The UCT(upperconfidence bounds ontrees)
method works by making random moves in the first few iterations, and over time guiding
thesampling process toprefermovesthathaveledtowinsinprevious samples. Sometricks
are added, including knowledge-based rules that suggest particular moves whenever a given
pattern isdetected andlimitedlocal searchtodecide tactical questions. Someprogramsalso
COMBINATORIAL include special techniques from combinatorial game theory to analyze endgames. These
GAMETHEORY
techniques decompose aposition intosub-positions thatcanbeanalyzed separately andthen
combined (Berlekamp and Wolfe, 1994; Mu ller, 2003). The optimal solutions obtained in
this way have surprised many professional Go players, who thought they had been playing
optimally allalong. Current Goprograms play atthemasterlevelonareduced 9 9board,
butarestillatadvanced amateurlevelonafullboard.
Bridge is a card game of imperfect information: a player s cards are hidden from the other
BRIDGE
players. Bridge is also a multiplayer game with four players instead of two, although the
Section5.8. Alternative Approaches 187
player