ten do backward reasoning. Some clues on this matter come from the domain of visual perception. Visual perception is the task of making sense of the excitatory signals that a living creature receives on its retina in the eye. To quote the neuroscientist V.S. Ramachandran (2003) Our ability to perceive the world around us seems so effortless that we tend to take it for granted. But just think of what is involved. You have two tiny, upside-down distorted images inside your eyeballs, but what you see is a vivid three dimensional world out there in front of you . About one third of our brain comprising thirty different regions in the visual cortex is devoted to visual processing. There are different areas for recognition of colour, different areas for motion, and different ones for recognizing faces. Scientists have been able to identify these areas because once in a while a patient suffers damage to a part of the cortex and then they are unable to do that kind of processing. So while one patient cannot even recognize his mother s face even when the voice is recognized, another one is afraid to cross the road because she cannot judge the speed of a car but can very well read the number plate on it. Furthermore, it seems there are two pathways from the retina into the brain for these signals to travel. One, known as the old pathway, is the evolutionary ancient pathway that seems to function more in what we would call the forward direction- collecting and assimilating signals and acting upon them. The second, or the new , goes to the visual cortex at the back of the brain. The cortex is the area of our brains that does symbolic processing, where goals and concepts and all kinds of knowledge resides. This region seems to be processing visual information in the backward direction; that is hypothesising goals' of what we are seeing and looking for confirmation of these goals in the incoming data. Optical illusions are a stark example of the fact that we do backward reasoning