says they must assume. Both methods are based on the use of completion formulas. Like CWA, they are also a form of nonmonotonic reasoning. Modal logics extend the expressiveness of classical logics by permitting the notions of possibility, necessity, obligation, belief, and the like. A number of different modal logics have been formalized, and inference rules comparable to propositional and predicate logic are available to permit different forms of nonmonotonic reasoning. .Ake modal logics, fuzzy logic was introduced to generalize and extend the expressiveness of traditional logics. Fuzzy logic is based on fuzzy set theory which permits partial set membership. This, together with the ability to use linguistic variables, makes it possible to represent such notions as Sue is not very tall, but she is quite pretty. EXERCISES 5.1 Give an example of nonmonotonic reasoning you have experienced at some time. 5.2 Draw the TMS belief network for the following knowledge base of facts. The question marks under output status means that the status must be determined for these datum nodes. INPUTS Premises Status Assumptions Status Q .S IN Q OUT IN P IN P.R .T IN P IN OUTPUTS Datum Status Conditions S IIQ,Q .Sthen S U ? If Q;Q,R .U.R then U T ? IIR.P.R .'T;P then T 5.3 Draw a TMS belief network for the aircraft example described in Section 5.2 and show how the network changes with the selection of an alternate choice of aircraft. 5.4 Write schemata for default reasoning using the following statements: (a) If someone is an adult and it is consistent to assume that adults can vote, infer that that person can vote. 106 Dealing with Inconsistencies and Uncertainties Chap. 5 (b) If one is at least 18 years old and it is consistent to assume that one who is physically ht and who passes a test may obtain a pilots license, infer that such a person can obtain a pilots license. 5.5 Show that a Horn clause data base that is consistent is consistent' under the CWA assumption. Give an example 