of actions. It was only later in the last decade of the twentieth century, that time made an appearance again in planning representations, as bigger and faster machines arrived, and other methods emerged. The Frame Problem is particularly difficult to deal with in an open-world model, where there may be other agencies. The Circumscription method given by McCarthy in 1980, laid the foundations of engaging in default reasoning in a changing world. One system that created quite an impression in 1970 was Terry Winograd s natural language understanding system, SHRDLU . It was written in the Micro-Planner language that was part of the Planner series of languages, that introduced an alternative to logic programming by adopting a procedural approach to knowledge representation, though they did have elements of logical reasoning. SHRDLU could carry out a conversation about a domain of blocks. It would listen to instructions like pick up the green cone , and if this was ambiguous, it would respond with I don t understand which cone you mean , and you could say something like the one on the red cube , which it would understand. Then if you told it to find a bigger one and put it in the box, it would check back whether by it you meant the bigger one and not the one it was holding, and so on. The optimism generated by SHRDLU generated expectations of computer systems that would soon talk to people, but it was not to be. Language is too rich a domain to be handled by simple means. Interestingly, Winograd s office mate and fellow research student at MIT, Eugene Charniak, had made the pertinent observation even then that the real task behind understanding language lies in knowledge representation and reasoning. This is the dominant theme when it comes to processing language that we explore in this book as well. Incidentally, Charniak s implementations were also done in Micro-Planner. A similar view was expressed by Roger Schank and his students at Yale University. They did a consid