fwhere auctions can come into play within AI is whenacollection
of agents are deciding whether to cooperate on a joint plan. Hunsberger and Grosz (2000)
show that this can be accomplished efficiently with an auction in which the agents bid for
rolesinthejointplan.
Section17.6. Mechanism Design 683
17.6.2 Commongoods
Now let s consider another type of game, in which countries set their policy for controlling
airpollution. Eachcountry hasachoice: theycanreduce pollution atacostof-10points for
implementing thenecessary changes, ortheycancontinue topollute, whichgivesthemanet
utility of-5(inadded health costs, etc.) andalsocontributes -1points toeveryothercountry
(because the air is shared across countries). Clearly, the dominant strategy for each country
is continue topollute, butifthereare100countries andeachfollowsthispolicy, theneach
country gets a total utility of -104, whereas if every country reduced pollution, they would
TRAGEDYOFTHE each have a utility of -10. This situation is called the tragedy of the commons: if nobody
COMMONS
has to pay for using a common resource, then it tends to be exploited in a way that leads to
a lower total utility for all agents. It is similar to the prisoner s dilemma: there is another
solution to the game that is better for all parties, but there appears to be no way for rational
agentstoarriveatthatsolution.
The standard approach for dealing with the tragedy of the commons is to change the
mechanism toone that charges each agent forusing the commons. More generally, weneed
to ensure that all externalities effects on global utility that are not recognized in the in-
EXTERNALITIES
dividual agents transactions are made explicit. Setting the prices correctly is the difficult
part. In the limit, this approach amounts to creating a mechanism in which each agent is
effectively requiredtomaximizeglobalutility, butcando sobymakingalocaldecision. For
this example, a carbon tax would be an example of a mechanism that charges for use of the
