or example a project for creating a database application requires high levels (say Skill rating 5) of database skills (like Oracle) while low knowledge of C language (say Skill rating 1). For an employee this rating signifies the grade of knowledge he/she has for that particular skill. Thus an employee with skill rating of 5 for C language and | for Prolog implies that the employee has high knowledge of C language and very low knowledge of Prolog. We assume that an employee can be allocated to at most one project. This ensures uniform distribution of the employees among the projects. One project can be allocated to more than one employee, but it is limited by the maximum team size that is decided by the project manager. Other requirements of the problem are the cost or salary paid to employees (hour based), budget and revenue (profit) from the project and also the projects preferred by the employees. Representation of chromosome Chromosome representation is one of the main challenges in orienting the problem to suit the GA application. The structure of the chromosome in this case is depicted in Fig. 23.4. It consists of a list of nodes. Each node represents one gene. The length of the chromosome is equal to the total requirement of the employees by the projects. For example, if there were 4 projects, each requiring 5 employees the length of the chromosome would be 20. Each gene in a chromosome consists of two parts a Project Id and an Employee Id. If the first project requires 3 employees, the initial three genes in the chromosome represent the allocations made for the first project followed by that for the second project and so on. The initial population is such that all the individual chromosomes obey the distribution constraint, i.e. one employee is allocated to at most one project. 1| 3 1| 5 1/1 27 2| 8] + 4 P} 3 Gene 1 \ Gene 2 Gene 3 Gene 4 Gene 5 Gene n Project id Employee Id Fig. 23.4 Representation of a chromosome Genetic Algorithms: Copying Nature's Approa