her is? 4. Property inheritance is a very common form of default reasoning. Consider the semantic net Mammal isa isa birth-mode Cow Platypus Live (a) How could the information in this network be represented in a JIMS? (b) What will happen when the additional fact that the platypus lays eggs is inserted into this system? PART III _ ADVANCED TOPICS CHAPTER 12 GAME PLAYING Every game of skill is susceptible of being played by an automaton. Charles Babbage (1791-1871), English mathematician, philosopher, inventor and mechanical engineer 12.1 OVERVIEW Games hold an inexplicable fascination for many people, and the notion that computers might play games has existed at least as long as computers. Charles Babbage, the nineteenth-century computer architect, thought about programming his Analytical Engine to play chess and later of building a machine to play tic-tac-toe [Bowden, 1953]. Two of the pioneers of the science of information and computing contributed to the fledgling computer game-playing literature. Claude Shannon [1950] wrote a paper in which he described mechanisms that could be used in a program to play chess. A few years later, Alan Turing described a chess-playing program, although he never built it. (For a description, see Bowden [1953}.) By the early 1960s, Arthur Samuel had succeeded in building the first significant, operational game-playing program. His program played checkers and, in addition to simply playing the game, could learn from its mistakes and improve its performance [Samuel, 1963]. There were two reasons that games appeared to be a good domain in which to explore machine intelligence: They provide a structured task in which it is very easy to measure success or failure. e They did not obviously require large amounts of knowledge. They were thought to be solvable by straightforward search from the starting state to a winning position. The first of these reasons remains valid and accounts for continued interest in the area of game playing by mac