is fragmented into antigenic APC peptides"? which later bind to molecules of the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) to form complexes. These complexes located at the surface of the , ; APC are then presented to the T-cells. The ~~ Peptide - MG provein being receptors on the surface of the T-cell presented at the facilitate recognition of a variety of such surface complexes. If the presentation yields recognition, the T-cell becomes activated ~ T-cell and divides, These cells secrete a lymphokines? which constitute chemical ao oo 0 signals that in turn stimulate several other Activated <a oo o Ss components of the immune system. Fig. T-cell > o O ~ lymphokines 24.1 depicts the manner in which the 9 9 tymphokines' are secreted. Fig. 24.1 TCell Activation 482 Artificial Intelligence EL NENTS T-cell Generation The T-cells are generated in the thymus but not all of them mature. The selection criteria is stringent and results in the death of most of the cells (epoptosis') and only a few mature to become naive T-cells. The microenvironment within the thymus governs the positive and negative selection of these cells. Positive selection occurs when the cells exhibit high enough binding tendencies to molecules of the MHC and self peptides. During positive selection T-cells are selected and made to develop into fully mature cells that are capable of immune action. In addition the process also increases the life span of the cell. On the other hand Negative selection which can occur within or the periphery of the thymus, filters out all those T-cells that bind to bone-marrow derived APCs which include macrophages" and dendritic cells, and self peptides with an affinity high enough to receive a signal for their apoptosis . As the T-cells emerge, they encounter self-peptide/MHC complexes in the thymic region. Cells that show a high affinity (or binding) to such complexes are discarded. Those that exhibit low affinities are allowed to flow out into the blood stream. The thymus 