so the control structure must be implemented using a push-down stack, in which decisions are recorded in case they need to be undone later. Irrecoverable problems, on the other hand, will need to be solved by a system that expends a great deal of effort making each decision since the decision must be final. Some irrecoverable problems can be solved by recoverable style methods used in a planning process, in which an entire sequence of steps is analyzed in advance to discover where it will lead before the first step is actually taken. We discuss next the kinds of problems in which this is possible. Problems, Probiem Spaces, and Search 39 _Se Bteind ESeee g LSAA ELA eg 2.3.3 Is the Universe Predictable? Again suppose that we are playing with the 8-puzzle. Every time we make a move, we know exactly what will happen. This means that it is possible to plan an entire sequence of moves and be confident that we know what the resulting state will be. We can use planning to avoid having to undo actual moves, although it will still be necessary to backtrack past those moves one at a time during the planning process. Thus a control structure that allows backtracking will be necessary. However, in games other than the 8-puzzle, this planning process may not be possible. Suppose we want to play bridge. One of the decisions we will have to make is which card to play on the first trick. What we would like to do is to plan the entire hand before making that first play. But now it is not possible to do such planning with certainty since We cannot know exactly where all the cards are or what the other players will do on their turns. The best we can do is to investigate several plans and use probabilities of the various outcomes to choose a plan that has the highest estimated probability of leading to a good score on the hand. These two games illustrate the difference between certain-outcome (e.g., 8-puzzle) and uncertain-outcome (e.g., bridge) problems. One way of describing planning 