rth and created the opportunity for mammals to come to the fore. Each species has its own strategy to live and consume resources, and when it can do that successfully, it survives. A species survives if the individuals of that species survive, at least long enough to create the next generation. Darwin called it the survival of the fittest (Darwin, 1859). A good strategy, a good design of a living creature, a candidate solution for the problem of life, is the one that survives. Life cannot explode limitlessly because the amount of matter is limited, and life uses matter to build creatures that live. And these creatures have to survive on the limited amount of energy that is available. So there is competition for survival, and life forms evolve by a process of natural selection. The ones that survive are the fit ones or good ones. The bad designs die out. In that sense, we can think of nature as searching through different designs of living creatures. While there is competition between the species, there is also competition within the species, perhaps more so. It is this competition that has led to the continual improvement of the species as a whole. The American paleontologist Edward Drinker Cope hypothesized that the body size of the members of a species grows with evolution (Cope s rule) . This continues till a point when the members become so large, like the dinosaurs, that they become susceptible to rapid changes in environment, and become prone to extinction. It has been suggested that it is this competition that has resulted in the development of human brains and intelligence. The species evolves and the ecosystem selects the individuals that survive longer. The species are interdependent upon each other. It is the individuals that participate in this interaction between the species. Each individual member strives for survival and propagation, and competes with other individuals for the means to do so. The fastest foxes catch the rabbits; the slower ones have t