on a D B says that if a is true then so is B. In fact this is the property used in rule based sys Jin Chapter 6). ve think of the Alf ranference as an implication statement (antecedent D consequent) and add 2? Why do we need a separate rule of inference outside the set of sentences? Let us consider th ule to answer that question. is why we need rules of inference that are based on tautological implications but that are ou . If we call (a D B) a rule (as in rule based systems) then we can call the rule of inference modus . The meta-rule in fact sits in the inference engine, or the proof procedure thalcapplies rules to proc ts. esolution Method in Propositional Logic scussed earlier the completeness of logic systems depends upon the choice of premises (or axioms nference. A multitude of logic systems were devised in the 19! century. These systems varied on tl yes used in the logical part of the language, and on the rules of inference that were allowed. ask of automated proof finding (theorem proving) has to address the issue of which rule of inference what data. The second issue becomes more critical in first order logic. The first one, of choosing ctively removed in 1965 when Alan Robinson invented the resolution refutation method (Robinso ecause the resolution method requires only one rule of inference and is a complete method. We lo a of resolution refutation with propositional logic, and revisit it with first order logic. The Resolution Rule lution method requires that the formula is in conjunctive normal form (CNF). A formula F is in CNF if. structure. FHC, ACA... NC, s the formula is a conjunction of clauses where each clause C; is a disjunction of literals, C) Diy V DV... V Dixii clause C; may have some k( ) number of literals, and each literal is either a proposition or the nege on. Since the structure of the formula in CNF is known, it is also conventionally represented as a s S. F D44, D4a, ..-,D14(4) , D21, D22, --,Dox(2) s- - Dnt, Dna, --- Dakimt ormula in