r board game that is played on an 8x8 grid with bi-colored pieces. Although computer programs have already achieved world-championship level play [Rosenbloom, 1982; Lee and Mahajan, 1990], humans continue to study the game and international tournaments are held regularly. Computers are not permitted to compete in these tournaments, but it is believed that the best programs are stronger than the best humans. High-performance Othello programs rely on fast brute-force search and table lookup. The Othello experience may shed some light on the future of computer chess. Will top human players in the future study chess games between World Champion computers in the same way that they study classic human grandmaster matches today? Perhaps it will turn out that the different search versus knowledge trade J : ; 246 Artificial Intelligence areevanenranseieaeaa ananassae offs made by humans and computers will make it impossible for either of them to benefit from the experiences of the other. Others Levy [1988] contains a number of classic papers on computer game playing. The papers cover the games listed above as well as bridge, scrabble, dominoes, go-moku, hearts, and poker. EXERCISES Mat t A cathy hun, BERT aha ENO RRR AETTTEGE hota AMT LIED 1. Consider the following game tree in which static scores are all from the first player s point of view: 7) @ @) 6) @ ) @ C2) 6) @ 6) (@) @ @) Suppose the first player is the maximizing player. What move should be chosen? 2. In the game tree shown in the previous problem, what nodes would not need to be examined using the alpha-beta pruning procedure? 3. Why does the search in game-playing programs always proceed forward from the current position rather than backward from a goal state? 4. Is the minimax procedure a depth-first or breadth-first search procedure? 5. The minimax algorithm we have described searches a game tree. But for some games, it might be better to search a graph and to check, each time a position is generated, if it has