on to show that in orderto affect n , n must not exceed
1 j
acertainboundderivedfromthe l values.
i
d. Repeattheprocessforthecasewhere n isamin-node.
j
5.14 Provethatalpha betapruningtakestime O(2m 2)withoptimalmoveordering,where
misthemaximumdepthofthegametree.
5.15 Suppose you have a chess program that can evaluate 10 million nodes per second.
Decideonacompactrepresentationofagamestateforstorageinatranspositiontable. About
how many entries can you fit in a 2-gigabyte in-memory table? Will that be enough for the
200 Chapter 5. Adversarial Search
0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
2 2 1 2 0 2 -1 0
Figure5.19 Thecompletegametreeforatrivialgamewithchancenodes.
three minutes of search allocated forone move? Howmany table lookups can you do in the
time it would take to do one evaluation? Now suppose the transposition table is stored on
disk. Abouthowmanyevaluations couldyoudointhetimeittakes todoonediskseekwith
standard diskhardware?
5.16 This question considers pruning in games with chance nodes. Figure 5.19 shows the
completegametreeforatrivialgame. Assumethattheleafnodesaretobeevaluated inleft-
to-rightorder,andthatbeforealeafnodeisevaluated, weknownothingaboutitsvalue the
rangeofpossible valuesis to .
a. Copythe figure, mark thevalue ofall theinternal nodes, and indicate the best moveat
therootwithanarrow.
b. Given the values of the first six leaves, do we need to evaluate the seventh and eighth
leaves? Given the values of the first seven leaves, do we need to evaluate the eighth
leaf? Explainyouranswers.
c. Suppose the leaf node values are known to lie between 2 and 2 inclusive. After the
firsttwoleavesareevaluated, whatisthevaluerangeforthe left-hand chancenode?
d. Circlealltheleavesthatneednotbeevaluatedundertheassumption in(c).
5.17 Implement the expectiminimax algorithm and the -alpha beta algorithm, which is
described by Ballard(1983), forpruning gametreeswithchance nodes. Trythemonagame
suchasbackgammonandmeasurethepruning effectiveness of -alpha beta.
5.18 Prove that with a po