 the problem of how syntactic and semantic interpretation can be combined. Grammar rules are written to describe syntactic rather than semantic regularities, But the structures the rules produce correspond to semantic relations rather than to strictly syntactic ones. As an example, consider the two sentences and the simplified forms of their conventional parse trees shown in Fig. 15.12. $s Ss NP vp NP vp a N a N v NP Vv PP \ Susan printed the file. The file was printed by Susan. Fig. 15.12 Syntactic Parses of an Active and a Passive Sentence Although the semantic roles of Susan and the file are identical in these two sentences, their syntactic roles are reversed. Each is the subject in one sentence and the object in another. Using a case grammar, the interpretations of the two sentences would both be (printed (agent Susan) (object File)) Now consider the two sentences shown in Fig. 15.13. S$ Ss NP v P NP o N Vv PP \\ Vv PP mw. < m Mother baked forthree hours. The pie baked for three hours. Fig. 15.13 Syntactic Parses of Two Similar Sentences The syntactic structures of these two sentences are almost identical. In one case, Mother is the subject of baked, while in the other the pie is the subject. But the relationship between Mother and baking is very different from that between the pie and baking. A case grammar analysis of these two sentences reflects this difference. The first sentence would be interpreted as (baked (agent Mother) (timeperiod 3-hours)) The second would be interpreted as (baked (object Pie) (timeperiod 3-hours)) In these representations, the semantic roles of mother and the pie are made explicit. It is interesting to note that this semantic information actually does intrude into the syntax of the language. While it is allowed to conjoin two parallel sentences (e.g., the pie baked and the cake baked become the pie and the cake 306 Artificial Intelligence baked ), this is only possible if the conjoined noun phrases are in the same case relation to th