at every Kalman filter model can be represented in a
DBN with continuous variables and linear Gaussian conditional distributions (Figure 15.9).
Itshouldbeclearfromthediscussion attheendofthepreceding sectionthatnotevery DBN
canberepresented bya Kalmanfiltermodel. Ina Kalmanfilter,thecurrentstatedistribution
isalwaysasinglemultivariate Gaussiandistribution that is,asingle bump inaparticular
location. DB Ns, on the other hand, can model arbitrary distributions. For many real-world
applications, this flexibility is essential. Consider, for example, the current location of my
keys. They might be in my pocket, on the bedside table, on the kitchen counter, dangling
from the front door, or locked in the car. A single Gaussian bump that included all these
places would have toallocate significant probability tothe keysbeing inmid-airin thefront
hall. Aspects of the real world such as purposive agents, obstacles, and pockets introduce nonlinearities thatrequirecombinationsofdiscreteandcontinuousvariablesinordertoget
reasonable models.
15.5.1 Constructing DB Ns
Toconstruct a DBN,onemustspecify three kinds ofinformation: thepriordistribution over
thestatevariables,P(X );thetransitionmodel P(X X );andthesensormodel P(E X ).
0 t 1 t t t
To specify the transition and sensor models, one must also specify the topology of the con-
nections between successive slices and between the state and evidence variables. Because
thetransition andsensormodelsareassumedtobestationary the sameforallt itismost
convenient simply tospecify them forthe firstslice. Forexample, thecomplete DB Nspeci-
ficationfortheumbrellaworldisgivenbythethree-node networkshownin Figure15.13(a).
Fromthis specification, the complete DB Nwithanunbounded numberoftimeslices canbe
constructed asneededbycopying thefirstslice.
Let us now consider a more interesting example: monitoring a battery-powered robot
moving in the X Y plane, as introduced at the end of Section 15.1. First, we need state
variables, which will include b