t the camera, because at low resolution
and underreasonable lighting, allsuch faces look quite similar. Theface isround, and quite
brightcomparedtotheeyesockets;thesearedark,becausetheyaresunken,andthemouthis
adarkslash,asaretheeyebrows. Majorchangesofilluminationcancausesomevariationsin
this pattern, but the range of variation is quite manageable. That makes it possible to detect
face positions in an image that contains faces. Once a computational challenge, this feature
isnowcommonplace ineveninexpensive digitalcameras.
Forthe moment, we will consider only faces where the nose is oriented vertically; we
will deal with rotated faces below. We sweep a round window of fixed size over the image,
compute features for it, and present the features to a classifier. This strategy is sometimes
calledtheslidingwindow. Featuresneedtoberobusttoshadowsandtochangesinbrightness
SLIDINGWINDOW
causedbyilluminationchanges. Onestrategyistobuildfeaturesoutofgradientorientations.
Another is to estimate and correct the illumination in each image window. To find faces of
different sizes, repeat the sweep over larger or smaller versions of the image. Finally, we
postprocess theresponses acrossscalesandlocations toproduce thefinalsetofdetections.
Postprocessing is important, because it is unlikely that we have chosen a window size
that is exactly the right size for a face (even if we use multiple sizes). Thus, we will likely
have several overlapping windows that each report a match for a face. However, if we use
aclassifierthat can report strength ofresponse (forexample, logistic regression orasupport
vector machine) we can combine these partial overlapping matches at nearby locations to
yieldasinglehigh-quality match. Thatgivesusafacedetectorthatcansearchoverlocations
and scales. To search rotations as well, we use two steps. We train a regression procedure
to estimate the best orientation of any face present in a window. Now, for each window, we
estimatetheorientation, reorientthewindow,