VP VP Adv Adv VP Verb Vmod Adv Adv Adv
VP Verb Vmod Adv Vmod Adv PP
PP Prep NP Vmod Adv PP Prep NP
NP Noun Adv PP NP Noun
PP Prep NP
For each of the preceding three grammars, write down three sentences of English and three
sentences of non-English generated by the grammar. Each sentence should be significantly
different, should be at least six words long, and should include some new lexical entries
(which you should define). Suggest ways to improve each grammar to avoid generating the
non-English sentences.
23.7 Collect some examples of time expressions, such as two o clock, midnight, and 12:46. Alsothink upsomeexamplesthatareungrammatical, such as thirteen o clock or halfpasttwofifteen. Writeagrammarforthetimelanguage.
23.8 In this exercise you will transform E into Chomsky Normal Form (CNF). There are
0
five steps: (a) Add a new start symbol, (b) Eliminate (cid:2) rules, (c) Eliminate multiple words
on right-hand sides, (d) Eliminate rules of the form (X Y), (e) Convert long right-hand
sidesintobinaryrules.
a. Thestartsymbol,S,canoccuronlyontheleft-handsidein CNF.Addanewruleofthe
form S (cid:2) S,usinganewsymbol S (cid:2) .
b. Theemptystring, (cid:2)cannot appearontheright-hand sidein CNF.E doesnothaveany
0
ruleswith(cid:2),sothisisnotanissue.
c. A word can appear on the right-hand side in a rule only of the form (X word).
Replace each rule of the form (X ...word...) with (X ...W (cid:2) ...) and (W (cid:2) word),usinganewsymbol W (cid:2) .
d. A rule (X Y) is not allowed in CNF; it must be (X Y Z) or (X word).
Replace each rule of the form (X Y) with a set of rules of the form (X ...),
oneforeachrule(Y ...),where(...) indicates oneormoresymbols.
e. Replace each ruleofthe form (X Y Z ...) withtworules, (X Y Z (cid:2) )and(Z (cid:2) Z ...),where Z (cid:2) isanewsymbol.
Showeachstepoftheprocess andthefinalsetofrules.
23.9 Using DCG notation, write a grammar for a language that is just like E , except that
1
itenforces agreement between thesubject andverb ofasentence 