encies: A common way to represent knowledge external to a computer or a human is in the form of written language. For example, some facts and relations represented in printed English are Joe is tall. Bill loves Sue. Sam has learned to use recursion to manipulate linked lists in several programruing languages. Sec. 2.2 Definition and Importance of Knowledge it The first item of knowledge above.expresses a simple fact, an attribute possessed by a person. The second item expresses a complex binary relation between two persons. The third item is the most complex, expressing relations between a person and more abstract programming concepts. To truly understand and make use of this knowledge, a person needs other world knowledge and the ability to reason with it. Knowledge may be declarative or procedural. Procedural knowledge is compiled knowledge related to the performance of some task. For example, the steps used to solve an algebraic equation are expressed as procedural knowledge. Declarative knowledge. on the other hand, is passive knowledge expressed as statements of facts about the world. Personnel data in a database is typical of declarative knowledge. Such data are explicit pieces of independent knowledge. Frequently, we will be interested in the use of heuristic knowledge, a special type of knowledge used by humans to solve complex problems. Heuristics are the knowledge used to make good judgments, or the strategies, tricks, or "rules of thumb'' used to simplify the solution of problems. Heuristics are usually acquired with much experience. For example, in locating a fault in a TV set, an experienced technician will not start by making numerous voltage checks when it is clear that the sound is present out the picture is not, but instead will immediately reason that the high voltage flyback transformer or related component is the culprit. This type of reasoning may not always be correct, but it frequeitly is. and then it leads to a quick solution. Knowledge shoul