 the emergence of the World Wide Web. The Web is not just a medium for people accessing pages put up by others, but also for programs accessing data hosted in remote systems and sending data to other systems. The ontology associated with a system becomes the basis of defining the semantics of the terms used. One of the driving forces is the business of e-commerce in which for example an internet agent can visit many sites looking for best prices for products with a given description. The WWW consortium has converged on a language for specifying ontology on the Web. This language is called OWL, and stands for Web Ontology Language2?. OWL builds upon RDF and RDF Schema (see Chapter 13). The most commonly used syntax is based on XML, though it is not an integral part of OWL. OWL is used to define resources and properties about resources. The language comes in three flavours. OWL Full The full language allows complete expressivity. OWL Full allows reification. Classes can be treated as collections of objects from the domain, as well as objects themselves. Everything that can be expressed in FOL can be expressed in OWL Full. As a corollary, reasoning in OWL Full can be undecidable in the worst case. OWL DL A subset of OWL Full that conforms to Description Logic. It prohibits interaction between different components in the representation and consequently can allow computationally efficient reasoning. OWL Lite A further restriction on the language that restricts it mostly to the class hierarchy with simple constraints on features. We look at the full language briefly. OWL is concerned with defining concepts as class descriptions and their properties or roles. The owl:Class is an rdfs:Class which is an rdfs:Resource. The properties in OWL are of two types. The first, ow l:ObjectProperty, is a role that takes another concept or class as a filler. The owl:ObjectProperty specfies a binary relation between two objects in the domain. The second, owl:DatatypeProperty, relates an 