such systems at even ten times the rate these early systems were built, it would still require on the order of l O person years. This estimate is based on the assumption that the time required is directly proportional to the size of the knowledge base, a simplified assumption. since the complexity of the knowledge and the interdependencies grow more rapidly with the size of the knowledge base. Clearly, this rate of acquisition is not acceptable. We must develop better acquisition and learning methods before we can implement such systems within a realistic time frame. Even with the progress made in the past few years through the development of special editors and related tools, more significant breakthroughs are needed before truly large knowledge bases can be assembled and maintained. Because of this, we expect the research interest in knowledge acquisition and machine learning to continue to grow at an accelerated rate for some years in the future. It has been stated before that a system's performance is strongly dependent on the level and quality of its knowledge, and that "in knowledge lies power." If we accept this adage, we must also agree that the acquisition of knowledge is of paramount importance and, in fact, that 'the real power lies in the ability to acquire new knowledge efficiently." To build a machine that can learn and continue to improve its performance has been a tong time dream of mankind. The fulfillment of that dream now seems closer than ever before with the modest successes achieved by Al researchers over the past twenty years. We will consider the complexity problem noted above again from a different point of view when we study the different learning paradigms. 16.4 GENERAL LEARNING MODEL As noted earlier, learning can be accomplished using a number of different methods. For example, we can learn by memorizing facts, by being told, or by studying examples like problem solutions. Learning requires that new knowledge structures be created from s