inuous distinction applies tothestateofthe
DISCRETE
environment, to the way time is handled, and to the percepts and actions of the agent. For
CONTINUOUS
example, the chess environment has a finite number of distinct states (excluding the clock).
Chess also has a discrete set of percepts and actions. Taxi driving is a continuous-state and
continuous-time problem: the speed and location ofthe taxi and ofthe other vehicles sweep
through arangeofcontinuous values anddososmoothlyovertime. Taxi-driving actions are
also continuous (steering angles, etc.). Input from digital cameras is discrete, strictly speak-
ing,butistypically treatedasrepresenting continuously varyingintensities andlocations.
Knownvs. unknown: Strictly speaking, this distinction refers not to the environment
KNOWN
itself but to the agent s (or designer s) state of knowledge about the laws of physics of
UNKNOWN
the environment. In a known environment, the outcomes (or outcome probabilities if the
environmentisstochastic)forallactionsaregiven. Obviously,iftheenvironmentisunknown,
the agent will have to learn how it works in order to make good decisions. Note that the
distinction between known and unknown environments is not the same as the one between
fully and partially observable environments. It is quite possible for a known environment
to be partially observable for example, in solitaire card games, I know the rules but am
still unable to see the cards that have not yet been turned over. Conversely, an unknown
environment can be fully observable in a new video game, the screen may show the entire
gamestatebut Istilldon tknowwhatthebuttonsdountil Itrythem.
As one might expect, the hardest case is partially observable, multiagent, stochastic,
sequential,dynamic,continuous,andunknown. Taxidrivingishardinallthesesenses,except
thatforthemostpartthedriver senvironmentisknown. Drivingarentedcarinanewcountry
withunfamiliargeography andtrafficlawsisalotmoreexciting.
Figure 2.6 lists the properties of a number