sthetotalpathcost
of the path that the agent actually travels. It is common to compare this cost with the path
cost of the path the agent would follow if it knew the search space in advance that is, the
actual shortest path (orshortest complete exploration). Inthelanguage ofonline algorithms,
thisiscalledthecompetitiveratio;wewouldlikeittobeassmallaspossible.
COMPETITIVERATIO
Section4.5. Online Search Agentsand Unknown Environments 149
Althoughthissounds likeareasonable request, itiseasytoseethatthebestachievable
competitive ratio is infinite in some cases. For example, if some actions are irreversible IRREVERSIBLE
i.e., they lead to a state from which no action leads back to the previous state the online
searchmightaccidentally reachadead-endstatefromwhichnogoalstateisreachable. Per-
DEADEND
haps the term accidentally is unconvincing after all, there might be an algorithm that
happensnottotakethedead-endpathasitexplores. Ourclaim,tobemoreprecise,isthatno
algorithm canavoiddeadendsinallstatespaces. Considerthetwodead-end statespacesin
Figure 4.20(a). To an online search algorithm that has visited states S and A, the two state
spaces look identical, so it must make the same decision in both. Therefore, it will fail in
ADVERSARY one of them. This isan example of an adversary argument wecan imagine an adversary
ARGUMENT
constructing the state space while the agent explores it and putting the goals and dead ends
whereveritchooses.
Deadendsarearealdifficultyforrobotexploration staircases, ramps,cliffs,one-way
streets, andallkindsofnaturalterrainpresentopportunities forirreversibleactions. Tomake
progress,wesimplyassumethatthestatespaceissafelyexplorable thatis,somegoalstate
SAFELYEXPLORABLE
is reachable from every reachable state. State spaces with reversible actions, such as mazes
and8-puzzles, canbeviewedasundirected graphsandareclearlysafelyexplorable.
Even in safely explorable environments, no bounded competitive ratio can be guaran-
teed if there are paths of unboun