ulas that we have. This is a little bit trickier. What we really want to say is that only those events happened that are either explicitly stated or that follow logically from what is stated. This kapi uiseip'what Circumscription does. Circumscription Circumscription is a method of default reasoning devised by John McCarthy (McCarthy, 1980; 1986), (Lifschitz, 1985; 1994). It is an approach to default reasoning that is aimed at making plausible, or defeasible, inferences. The basic idea behind Circumscription is to find the set of formulas that hold in all minimal models of a given set of formulas. In doing so one may choose the predicates that one wants to minimize. If is a formula containing the predicate symbol p, then the circumscription of p in T written as Circ F p is the formula in second order logic, TA(3 9((9)A p) which should be read as: The statement I is true, and there exists no predicate gv of the same arity as p such that T( ), the formula with every occurrence of p is replaced by g, is true, and g implies p but is not equivalent to p. In other words in every model of the circumscription the set of instances of p are consistent with (the given) T, and no subset of the instances is consistent with . Equivalently the circumscription admits only those instances of p that are necessarily entailed by the given set of facts . We shall look at Circumscription again when we look at default reasoning in Chapter 17. Let be the conjunction of the domain axioms including the nitiates and the Terminates formulas, and let A be the set of Happens statements including the trigger events, let EC be the axioms of event calculus, and U be the set of unique named assumptions, then we can state that Circ X; Initiates, Terminates, Releases Circ A; Happens A EC U HoldsAt(loc(nikhil53, cricketPracticel1), tg) The detailed proofs are beyond the scope of this text. The interested reader is referred to (Lifschitz, 1985; 1994), (Mueller, 2006) and (Shanahan, 1995; 1997). Our focu