ge like PROLOG. For example, the grammar rule that states that S is a sentence if it is a noun phrase followed by a verb phrase (S - NP VP) may be written in PROLOG as sentence(AC) - noun Phrase)A,B), verb Ph(ase(BC) The variables A. B. and C in this statement represent lists of words. The argument A is the whole list of words to be tested as a sentence, and C is the list of remaining words, if any. Similar assumptions hold for A. B, and C in the noun and verb phrase conditions respectively. Rule definitions which rewrite the noun phrases and verb phrases must also be defined. Thus, an NP may be defined with statements such as the following: n Oun Phrase(A.C) arlic Ie(A,B), noun)B,C). noun Phrase(A,B) Like the the above rule, these rules state that (I) a noun phrase can be either an article which consists of a list A and remaining list B (if any) and a noun which is a list B and remaining list. C or (2) a noun consisting of the list A with remaining list B (if any). Similarly, a verb phrase may be defined with rules like the following: Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 246 verb Phrase(A,B verb(A,B). verb Phrase(A,C) = verb(AB). nounphrase(BC). vorb Phrase(AC) : = verb(A,B), preposition Phras)B.C) Definitions for the prepositional phrase as well as lexical terminals must also he given. These can include the following: preposition Phrase(A.C) pepositionl A,B) roun Phras O(8.C. prepositionhlat Xi.X). a rt de C Ia I . X C a rticle( the XI,X). nounoldogi XIX). noun(lcow XIX). nounilm000 XLX) verb(tbarked XIX). verb) lwinked XI,X). ype are grammati With this simple parser we can determine if strings ufthe following t call N correct. - The dog barked at the cow. The moon winked at the dog. A cow harked at a moon. To do so. we must enter sentence queries as lists such as the following tor the PROLOG interpreter: ? X=ll ? - sentence)) barked,a,m OOfl.d Og.thel XI no Since the remainder of the sentence hound to X is the empty set, it is recognited a corrct The second sente