f the basic primitives, class and method definitions, an editor, a browser, window and mouse facilities, and a graphics output. 8.5 OBJECT-ORIENTED LANGUAGES AND SYSTEMS In addition to the Smailtalk family of OOS languages, a number of other languages have been developed, including object-oriented extensions to LISP dialects and special purpose languages. Typical of the LISP extensions is the FLAVORS add-ons. OOS with Lisp Extensions In FLAVORS, classes are created with the defflavor form, and methods of the flavor are created with defmethod. An -instance of a flavor is created with a makeinstance type of function. For example, to create a new flavor (class) of ships with instance variables x-position, v-position, x-velocity, v-velocity, and cargo-capacity. the following expression is evaluated: (defflavor ship tx-position V-position x-velocity V-velocity cargo-capacity)) - Methods for the ship flavor are written in a similar manner with a defmethod, say for the ship's speed, as tdefrnethod (ship :speed) () (sqrt (4- ( x-v&ocity X-velocity) (y'velocity V-velocity)))) 12162 Object-Oriented Representations Chap. 8 To create an instance of ship one then uses the form (setf ship42 (make-instance 'ship)) In addition to user defined methods, three additional predefined methods are available for a flavor. They are used to assign values to instance variables, to initialize variable values, and to get values of-the variables. These options are specified in the defflavor statement when the flavor is created. For example, to include these optional methods, the following form is used: (defflavor ship (x-position v-position s-velocity y-velocity cargo-capacity) (I gettable-instance-variables settable-instance-variables initlable-instance-variables) Values for the ship instance variables can now be assigned either with a message or when an instance of the ship is created. (send ship42 :set-cargo-capacity 22.5) or (self ship42 (make-instance 'ship :5-position 5.0 :y-position 8.0))