ofwhichworldstateswere
possible, butcouldsaynothing aboutwhichstateswerelikelyorunlikely. Inthischapter, we
useprobability theorytoquantify thedegreeofbeliefinelementsofthebeliefstate.
As we show in Section 15.1, time itself is handled in the same way as in Chapter 7: a
changingworldismodeledusingavariableforeachaspectoftheworldstateateachpointin
time. The transition and sensor models maybe uncertain: the transition model describes the
probability distribution of the variables at time t, given the state of the world at past times,
while the sensor model describes the probability of each percept at time t, given the current
state of the world. Section 15.2 defines the basic inference tasks and describes the gen-
eral structure of inference algorithms for temporal models. Then we describe three specific
kinds of models: hidden Markov models, Kalman filters, and dynamic Bayesian net-
works (which include hidden Markov models and Kalman filters as special cases). Finally,
Section15.6examinestheproblemsfacedwhenkeeping track ofmorethanonething.
15.1 TIME AND UNCERTAINTY
Wehavedevelopedourtechniques forprobabilistic reasoning inthecontextofstaticworlds,
in which each random variable has a single fixed value. Forexample, when repairing a car,
we assume that whatever is broken remains broken during the process of diagnosis; our job
istoinferthestateofthecarfromobservedevidence, which alsoremainsfixed.
566
Section15.1. Timeand Uncertainty 567
Nowconsideraslightly different problem: treating adiabetic patient. Asinthecaseof
carrepair, wehave evidence such asrecent insulin doses, food intake, blood sugarmeasure-
ments,andotherphysicalsigns. Thetaskistoassessthecurrentstateofthepatient,including
the actual blood sugar level and insulin level. Given this information, we can make a deci-
sion about the patient s food intake and insulin dose. Unlike the case of car repair, here the
dynamic aspects of the problem are essential. Blood sugar levels and measurements thereof
can change