 succeeded by means of simple syntactic manipulations. A typical story
occurred inearlymachinetranslation efforts, whichweregenerously fundedbythe U.S.Na-
tional Research Councilinanattempttospeedupthetranslation of Russianscientificpapers
inthewakeofthe Sputniklaunchin1957. Itwasthoughtinitiallythatsimplesyntactictrans-
formations based on the grammars of Russian and English, and word replacement from an
electronic dictionary, would suffice to preserve the exact meanings of sentences. The fact is
that accurate translation requires background knowledge in order to resolve ambiguity and
establish the content of the sentence. The famous retranslation of the spirit is willing but
the fleshisweak as the vodka isgood but themeat isrotten illustrates the difficulties en-
countered. In1966,areportbyanadvisorycommitteefoundthat therehasbeennomachine
translationofgeneralscientifictext,andnoneisinimmediateprospect. All U.S.government
fundingforacademictranslation projectswascanceled. Today,machinetranslation isanim-
perfectbutwidelyusedtoolfortechnical, commercial, government, and Internetdocuments.
Thesecondkindofdifficultywastheintractabilityofmanyoftheproblemsthat AIwas
attempting to solve. Most of the early AI programs solved problems by trying out different
combinations of steps until the solution was found. This strategy worked initially because
microworlds contained very few objects and hence very few possible actions and very short
solution sequences. Before the theory of computational complexity was developed, it was
widely thought that scaling up to larger problems was simply a matter of faster hardware
andlargermemories. Theoptimismthataccompaniedthedevelopmentofresolutiontheorem
proving,forexample,wassoondampenedwhenresearchers failedtoprovetheoremsinvolv-
ingmorethanafewdozenfacts. Thefactthataprogramcanfindasolutioninprincipledoes
notmeanthattheprogramcontains anyofthemechanismsneededtofinditinpractice.
The illusion of unlimited computational power was not confi