veryusefultoolformostbuyers.
In addition to the product hierarchy itself, we also need to have a rich vocabulary of
names for categories. Life would be much easier if there were a one-to-one correspon-
dence between categories and the character strings that name them. We have already seen
the problem of synonymy two names for the same category, such as laptop computers and laptops. Thereisalso theproblem of ambiguity one namefortwoormoredifferent
categories. Forexample,ifweaddthesentence
Name( CDs ,Certificates Of Deposit)
totheknowledge basein Figure12.9(b), then CDs willnametwodifferent categories.
Synonymy and ambiguity can cause a significant increase in the number of paths that
the agent has to follow, and can sometimes make it difficult to determine whether a given
pageisindeedrelevant. Amuchmoreseriousproblemistheverybroadrangeofdescriptions
thatausercantypeandcategorynamesthatastorecanuse. Forexample, thelinkmightsay laptop whenthe knowledge basehas only laptops orthe usermight askfor acomputer
466 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
I can fit on the tray table of an economy-class airline seat. It is impossible to enumerate in
advance all the ways a category can be named, so the agent will have to be able to do addi-
tionalreasoninginsomecasestodetermineifthe Namerelationholds. Intheworstcase,this
requiresfullnaturallanguageunderstanding, atopicthatwewilldeferto Chapter22. Inprac-
tice,afewsimplerules suchasallowing laptop tomatchacategorynamed laptops go
alongway. Exercise12.10asksyoutodevelopasetofsuchrules afterdoing someresearch
intoonlinestores.
Given the logical definitions from the preceding paragraphs and suitable knowledge
bases of product categories and naming conventions, are we ready to apply an inference
algorithm to obtain a set of relevant offers for our query? Not quite! The missing element
is the Contents(url) function, which refers to the HTML page at a given URL. The agent
doesn t havethepagecontents ofevery UR Linitsknowledge base;nordoe