acologically ignorant but diagnostically sophisti-
cated medical student observing a consulting session between a patient and an expert
internist. After a series of questions and answers, the expert tells the patient to take a
course of a particular antibiotic. The medical student infers the general rule that that
particularantibiotic iseffectiveforaparticulartypeof infection.
These are all cases in which the use of background knowledge allows much faster learning
thanonemightexpectfromapureinduction program.
19.2.2 Somegeneral schemes
In each of the preceding examples, one can appeal to prior knowledge to try to justify the
generalizations chosen. Wewillnowlookatwhatkindsofentailment constraints areoperat-
ingineachcase. Theconstraints willinvolve the Background knowledge, inaddition tothe
Hypothesis andtheobserved Descriptions and Classifications.
In the case of lizard toasting, the cavemen generalize by explaining the success of the
pointed stick: it supports the lizard while keeping the hand away from the fire. From this
explanation,theycaninferageneralrule: thatanylong,rigid,sharpobjectcanbeusedtotoast
small, soft-bodied edibles. Thiskind ofgeneralization process hasbeencalled explanation-
EXPLANATION-
based learning, or EBL.Notice that the general rule follows logically from the background
BASED
LEARNING
knowledgepossessedbythecavemen. Hence,theentailmentconstraintssatisfiedby EB Lare
thefollowing:
Hypothesis Descriptions Classifications
Background Hypothesis .
Section19.2. Knowledgein Learning 779
Because EBL uses Equation (19.3), it was initially thought to be a way to learn from ex-
amples. But because it requires that the background knowledge be sufficient to explain the
Hypothesis, which in turn explains the observations, the agent does not actually learn any-
thing factually new from the example. Theagent could have derived the example from what
it already knew, although that might have required an unreasonable amount of computation.
EBL is now viewed as