ve) c. i value print (after the sequence in b above) 8.3. What is the class of Class? What is the superclasg of Class? 8.4. What is the result from typing the following expression? 3 - (4 print) * 6 8.5. A bag is like a set except the same Item may occur more than once One way to implement the class Bag is with a dictionary, where the value contained in the dictionary is the number of times the item occurs in the bag. A partial implementation for a bag is given below. Complete the implementation, keeping in mind that instances of dictionary respond to first and next with values and not keys. The current key is accessible, however, if current Kcy is used. Class Bag Collection I diet counti new diet: =Dictionary new some methods go here. first (count:=dict first) is Nil if True:l - nil]. count:=count - 1. dict currentkey next [count not Nill while True: l(count>O) if True:(count:count - 1.' diet current Key[ if False:(count:dict nextil. nil 8.6. One method of defining a discrete probability distribution is to provide the actual sample space elements in a collection. A random sample can then be obtained from the collection entries. Produce a class description for a class called Sample Space which will he used to randomly select points using the following: 166 Object-Oriented Representations Chap. 8 sample:- Sample Space new, define: #1129 14 19 11 21) sample first 12 8.7. Modify the simulation program givn in Section 8.4 to collect use statistics on the tugs: at the end of the run a printout of average tug usage should he made. U V ...s . . . - . ,_. _ _ ,... . - . '-. . . . PART 3 Knowledge Organization and Manipulation Search and Control Strategies In the next three chapters we examine the organization and manipulation of knowledge. This chapter is concerned with search, an operation required in almost all Al programs. Chapter 10 covers the comparison or matching of data structures and in particular pattern matching, while Chapter II is concerned with the organizatio