work(a),intermsof sandm.
child
e. Suppose that P(G l) P(G l) q. In network (a), derive an expres-
father mother
sionfor P(G l)intermsofmandq only,byconditioning onitsparentnodes.
child
f. Under conditions of genetic equilibrium, we expect the distribution of genes to be the
sameacrossgenerations. Usethistocalculatethevalueofq,and,givenwhatyouknow
abouthandedness inhumans, explainwhythehypothesis described atthebeginning of
thisquestionmustbewrong.
14.7 The Markov blanket of a variable is defined on page 517. Prove that a variable
is independent of all other variables in the network, given its Markov blanket and derive
Equation(14.12)(page538).
Battery
Radio Ignition Gas
Starts
Moves
Figure 14.21 A Bayesian network describing some features of a car s electrical system
and engine. Each variable is Boolean, and the true value indicates that the corresponding
aspectofthevehicleisinworkingorder.
Exercises 561
14.8 Considerthenetworkforcardiagnosis shownin Figure14.21.
a. Extendthenetworkwiththe Booleanvariables Icy Weather and Starter Motor.
b. Givereasonable conditional probability tablesforallthenodes.
c. How many independent values are contained in the joint probability distribution for
eight Boolean nodes, assuming that no conditional independence relations are known
toholdamongthem?
d. Howmanyindependent probability valuesdoyournetworktablescontain?
e. Theconditionaldistributionfor Starts couldbedescribedasanoisy-AN Ddistribution.
Definethisfamilyingeneral andrelateittothenoisy-ORdistribution.
14.9 Considerthefamilyoflinear Gaussiannetworks, asdefinedonpage520.
a. In a two-variable network, let X be the parent of X , let X have a Gaussian prior,
1 2 1
and let P(X X ) be a linear Gaussian distribution. Show that the joint distribution
2 1
P(X ,X )isamultivariate Gaussian, andcalculateitscovariance matrix.
1 2
b. Prove by induction that the joint distribution for a general linear Gaussian network on
X ,...,X isalsoamultivariate Gaussian.
1 n
14.10 Theprobit distributi