 60 years later. Yet AI researchers have devoted little effort to passing
the Turing Test, believing that it is more important to study the underlying principles of in-
telligence thantoduplicate anexemplar. Thequest for artificial flight succeeded whenthe
Wrightbrothers andothers stopped imitating birdsandstarted using windtunnels andlearn-
ing about aerodynamics. Aeronautical engineering texts do not define the goal of their field
asmaking machinesthatflysoexactlylikepigeonsthattheycanfoolevenotherpigeons. 1.1.2 Thinking humanly: The cognitivemodeling approach
Ifwearegoing to saythat agiven program thinks like ahuman, wemusthave some wayof
determining how humans think. Weneed toget inside the actual workings of human minds.
There are three ways to do this: through introspection trying to catch our own thoughts as
they go by; through psychological experiments observing a person in action; and through
brain imaging observing the brain in action. Once wehave a sufficiently precise theory of
themind,itbecomespossible toexpress thetheory asacomputer program. Iftheprogram s
input output behavior matchescorresponding human behavior, thatisevidence thatsomeof
the program s mechanisms could also be operating in humans. For example, Allen Newell
and Herbert Simon,whodeveloped GPS,the General Problem Solver (Newelland Simon,
1961), were not content merely to have their program solve problems correctly. They were
more concerned with comparing the trace of its reasoning steps to traces of human subjects
solving the same problems. The interdisciplinary field of cognitive science brings together
COGNITIVESCIENCE
computermodelsfrom AIandexperimentaltechniques frompsychologytoconstructprecise
andtestabletheories ofthehumanmind.
Cognitivescienceisafascinating fieldinitself,worthyofseveraltextbooksandatleast
one encyclopedia (Wilson and Keil, 1999). Wewilloccasionally comment onsimilarities or
differences between AItechniques andhumancognition. Realcognitive science, however,is
nece