hering isprovidedbythe exploration thatmustbeundertaken by
EXPLORATION
avacuum-cleaning agentinaninitially unknownenvironment.
Ourdefinition requires arational agentnotonlytogatherinformation butalsotolearn
LEARNING
as much as possible from what it perceives. The agent s initial configuration could reflect
some prior knowledge of the environment, but as the agent gains experience this may be
modified and augmented. There are extreme cases in which the environment is completely
known a priori. In such cases, the agent need not perceive orlearn; it simply acts correctly.
Ofcourse,suchagentsarefragile. Considerthelowlydungbeetle. Afterdiggingitsnestand
layingitseggs,itfetchesaballofdungfromanearbyheaptoplugtheentrance. Iftheballof
dung isremoved from itsgrasp en route, the beetle continues its task and pantomimes plug-
ging the nest withthe nonexistent dung ball, never noticing that it is missing. Evolution has
builtanassumption intothebeetle sbehavior, andwhenitisviolated, unsuccessful behavior
results. Slightly more intelligent is the sphex wasp. The female sphex will dig a burrow, go
out and sting a caterpillar and drag it to the burrow, enter the burrow again to check all is
well,dragthecaterpillarinside,andlayitseggs. Thecaterpillarservesasafoodsourcewhen
the eggs hatch. So far so good, but if an entomologist moves the caterpillar a few inches
away while the sphex isdoing the check, it willrevert to the drag step ofits plan and will
continuetheplanwithoutmodification,evenafterdozensofcaterpillar-movinginterventions.
Thesphexisunabletolearnthatitsinnateplanisfailing, andthuswillnotchange it.
To the extent that an agent relies on the prior knowledge of its designer rather than
AUTONOMY on its own percepts, we say that the agent lacks autonomy. A rational agent should be
autonomous it should learn what it can to compensate forpartial or incorrect prior knowl-
edge. Forexample,avacuum-cleaningagentthatlearnstoforeseewhereandwhenadditional
dirt will appear will do bett