quantities need to be added. For example Shyam ran for 3 km and walked another 2 km. How much distance did he cover? In the first notation, addition is defined naturally, and one will assert the facts as, km(length(firstLeg)) 3 km(length(secondLeg)) 2 km(length(total)) km(length(firstLeg)) km(length(second(Leg)) 3 2 5 In the second notation, we would assert the facts as, length(firstLeg) km(3) length(secondLeg) km(2) length(total) length(firstLeg) length(secondLeg) km(3) km(2) km(3 2) km(5) This needs an extra inference step based on the rule Xv Y (km(X) km(Y) km(X Y)) where X and Y have to be of type (or sort) number. 13.4.1 Fuzzy and Qualitative Categories Humans tend to use linguistic terms to describe many categories with sets of values that objects may have, rather than use actual numerical values. This is especially useful if one needs to reason at an abstract level with a certain subsets of values. This may be used to define rules or for descriptions of behaviour or properties. Examples of such sentences, with the categories italicized, are, Rinse the clothes in warm water. The weather in Chennai is usually hot. Tall people make good basketball players. Sherpas in the Himalayas can carry heavy loads with ease. Taxi drivers do not like short rides. It is not always possible to define crisp categories for properties that represent denote subsets of numeric values. How does one define the concept of warm water? One cannot say that the water is warm if the temperature is within some range tow thigh . This would imply that a temperature just below tiowis categorized as not warm while fioy itself is categorized as warm. Similarly, for the other categories, hot, tall, heavy and short. The notion of fuzzy sets introduced by Lotfi Zadeh in 1965 allows us to define meaningful semantics of such terms (Zadeh, 1965). A fuzzy set is a set which does not define membership of a set in crisp yes no terms. Rather there are degrees of membership with which an element can belong