ts
of the original known facts and a set of conclusions from the default rules, such that no
additionalconclusions canbedrawnfrom S andthejustificationsofeverydefaultconclusion
in S areconsistentwith S. Asinthecaseofthepreferredmodelsincircumscription, wehave
twopossibleextensionsforthe Nixondiamond: onewhereinheisapacifistandonewherein
heisnot. Prioritizedschemesexistinwhichsomedefaultrulescanbegivenprecedenceover
others, allowingsomeambiguities toberesolved.
Since 1980, when nonmonotonic logics were first proposed, a great deal of progress
has been made in understanding their mathematical properties. There are still unresolved
questions, however. For example, if Cars have four wheels is false, what does it mean
to have it in one s knowledge base? What is a good set of default rules to have? If we
cannot decide, for each rule separately, whether it belongs in our knowledge base, then we
haveaseriousproblem ofnonmodularity. Finally, howcanbeliefsthathavedefaultstatusbe
used to make decisions? This is probably the hardest issue for default reasoning. Decisions
often involve tradeoffs, and one therefore needs to compare the strengths of belief in the
outcomes ofdifferent actions, and the costs of making awrong decision. In cases where the
same kinds of decisions are being made repeatedly, it is possible to interpret default rules
as threshold probability statements. For example, the default rule My brakes are always
OK really means The probability that my brakes are OK, given no other information, is
sufficiently high that the optimal decision is for me to drive without checking them. When
thedecisioncontextchanges forexample,whenoneisdrivingaheavilyladentruckdowna
steep mountain road the default rulesuddenly becomes inappropriate, eventhough thereis
nonewevidenceoffaultybrakes. Theseconsiderationshaveledsomeresearcherstoconsider
howtoembeddefaultreasoning withinprobability theoryor utilitytheory.
12.6.2 Truth maintenance systems
Wehave seen that many of the inference