is outside of nature,
exempt from physical laws. Animals, on the other hand, did not possess this dual quality;
they could be treated as machines. An alternative to dualism is materialism, which holds
MATERIALISM
that the brain s operation according to the laws of physics constitutes the mind. Free will is
simplythewaythattheperception ofavailable choicesappears tothechoosing entity.
Given a physical mind that manipulates knowledge, the next problem is to establish
the source of knowledge. The empiricism movement, starting with Francis Bacon s (1561 EMPIRICISM
1626)Novum Organum,2 ischaracterizedbyadictumof John Locke(1632 1704): Nothing
is in the understanding, which was not first in the senses. David Hume s (1711 1776) A
Treatise of Human Nature (Hume, 1739) proposed what is now known as the principle of
induction: thatgeneralrulesareacquiredbyexposuretorepeatedassociations betweentheir
INDUCTION
elements. Building on the work of Ludwig Wittgenstein (1889 1951) and Bertrand Russell
(1872 1970), the famous Vienna Circle, led by Rudolf Carnap (1891 1970), developed the
doctrineoflogicalpositivism. Thisdoctrineholdsthatallknowledgecanbecharacterizedby
LOGICALPOSITIVISM
OBSERVATION logical theories connected, ultimately, to observation sentences that correspond to sensory
SENTENCES
inputs;thuslogicalpositivismcombinesrationalismandempiricism.3 Theconfirmationthe-
CONFIRMATION oryof Carnapand Carl Hempel(1905 1997) attempted toanalyze theacquisition ofknowl-
THEORY
edge from experience. Carnap s book The Logical Structure of the World (1928) defined an
explicit computational procedure for extracting knowledge from elementary experiences. It
wasprobably thefirsttheoryofmindasacomputational process.
2 The Novum Organum isanupdate of Aristotle s Organon, orinstrument ofthought. Thus Aristotlecanbe
seenasbothanempiricistandarationalist.
3 Inthispicture,allmeaningfulstatementscanbeverifiedorfalsifiedeitherbyexperimentationorbyanalysis
ofthemeaningofthewords.Becausethisrules