 universe (Ramachandran, 2003). While we still do not know how the brain creates the mind, represents information, and allows us to reason, we do have consensus that the brain is made up of a large number of simple cells called neurons. The number of neurons we have is estimated to be anywhere between ten and a hundred billion. Each neuron is itself a simple device that receives electrochemical inputs from other neurons, and in turn generates an output signal that flows into other neurons. A biological neuron has basically three distinct components as shown in Figure 4.19, Soma or sell body Flow of signal Dendrites FIGURE 4.19 A biological neuron from the brain receives several inputs via its dendrites and sends a signal down its axon. The axon branches out as well and connects to dendrites of other neurons via synapses, which transmit the signal chemically to the other neurons. The shaded portion of the soma is the nucleus of the cell. The soma or the central part of the neuron is the cell body that contains the nucleus. Every neuron is surrounded by a plasma membrane containing proteins that make it behave like a gate. They hold charged particles that may be transmitted across ion channels, based on a voltage difference or sometimes on chemical properties. Neurons communicate with other neurons via electrical and chemical synapses. The dendrites are cellular extensions with many branches forming what is known as a dendritic tree. The dendrites receive signals from other neurons they are connected to via synaptic connections. The axon carries the signal that the soma generates to other neurons. The axon can be very long, often being thousands of times the diameter of the soma. It is usually coated by a myelin sheath that provides insulation, enabling the transmission of electrical signals over longer distances. The terminals of the axon branches have the synapses that connect to other neurons via their dendrites, or even on the soma, and transmit signals chemically