 any of the search algorithms of Chapter 3. In fact, we can do a little bit more
than that. In ordinary graph search, newly generated states are tested to see if they are
identical toexisting states. Thisworksforbelief states, too; forexample, in Figure 4.14, the
action sequence Suck,Left,Suck starting at the initial state reaches the same belief state as Right,Left,Suck , namely, 5,7 . Now, consider the belief state reached by Left , namely, 1,3,5,7 . Obviously, this is not identical to 5,7 , but it is a superset. It is easy to prove
(Exercise4.8)thatifanactionsequenceisasolutionforabeliefstateb,itisalsoasolutionfor
anysubset ofb. Hence, wecandiscardapathreaching 1,3,5,7 if 5,7 hasalready been
generated. Conversely, if 1,3,5,7 has already been generated and found to be solvable,
thenanysubset, suchas 5,7 , isguaranteed tobesolvable. Thisextralevelofpruningmay
dramatically improvetheefficiencyofsensorless problem solving.
Evenwiththisimprovement,however,sensorlessproblem-solvingaswehavedescribed
itisseldom feasible inpractice. Thedifficulty isnotsomuchthevastness ofthebelief-state
space even though it is exponentially larger than the underlying physical state space; in
most cases the branching factor and solution length in the belief-state space and physical
state space are not so different. The real difficulty lies with the size of each belief state. For
example, the initial belief state forthe 10 10 vacuum worldcontains 100 2100 oraround
1032 physical states far too many if we use the atomic representation, which is an explicit
listofstates.
One solution is to represent the belief state by some more compact description. In
English, we could say the agent knows Nothing in the initial state; after moving Left, we
could say, Not in the rightmost column, and so on. Chapter 7 explains how to do this in a
formal representation scheme. Another approach is to avoid the standard search algorithms,
whichtreatbeliefstatesasblackboxesjustlikeanyotherproblemstate. Instead,weca