lik and Rosenholtz (1997). The mathematics of occluding contours, and
more generally understanding the visual events in the projection of smooth curved objects,
owesmuchtotheworkof Koenderink andvan Doorn, whichfindsanextensive treatment in
Koenderink s(1990)Solid Shape. Inrecentyears,attentionhasturnedtotreatingtheproblem
ofshapeandsurfacerecoveryfromasingleimageasaprobabilisticinferenceproblem,where
geometrical cues are not modeled explicitly, but used implicitly in a learning framework. A
goodrepresentative istheworkof Hoiem,Efros,and Hebert(2008).
Forthereaderinterested inhumanvision, Palmer(1999)provides thebestcomprehen-
sive treatment; Bruce et al. (2003) is a shorter textbook. The books by Hubel (1988) and
Rock (1984) are friendly introductions centered on neurophysiology and perception respec-
tively. David Marr sbook Vision(Marr,1982)playedahistoricalroleinconnectingcomputer
vision topsychophysics andneurobiology. Whilemanyofhis specific models haven t stood
the test of time, the theoretical perspective from which each task is analyzed at an informa-
tional, computational, andimplementation levelisstillilluminating.
For computer vision, the most comprehensive textbook is Forsyth and Ponce (2002).
Truccoand Verri(1998)isashorteraccount. Horn(1986)and Faugeras(1993)aretwoolder
andstillusefultextbooks.
Themain journals forcomputer vision are IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence and International Journal of Computer Vision. Computer vision con-
ferences include ICCV (International Conference on Computer Vision), CVPR (Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition), and ECCV (European Conference on Computer Vision).
Researchwithamachinelearningcomponentisalsopublishedinthe NIPS(Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems)conference,andworkontheinterfacewithcomputergraphicsoften
appearsatthe ACMSIGGRAPH(Special Interest Groupin Graphics) conference.
Exercises 969
EXERCISES
24.1 In the shadow of a tree with a dense, leafy canopy, one sees a number