okens. The tokens are arranged into three rows with one token in the first row, three in the second row, and five in the third row (Figure 17.6). The first player must remove at least one token but not more than all the tokens in any single row. Tokens can only be removed from a single row during each player's move The second player responds by removing one or more tokens remaining in any row. Players alternate in this way until all tokens have been removed; the loser is the player forced to remove the last token. We will use the triple (n1.n.n3) to represent the stares of the game at a given time where a, n,, and n3 are the numbers of tokens in rows I. 2. and 3, respectively. We will also use a matrix to determine the moves made by the CLA for any given state. The matrix of Figure 17.7 has heading columns which correspond to the state of the game when it is the CLA's turn to move, and row headings which correspond to the new game state after the CLA has completed a move. Fractional entries in the matrix are transition probabilities used by the CLA to execute each of its moves. Asterisks in the matrix represent invalid moves. Beginning with the initial stale (1.3.5). suppose the CLA's opponent removes two tokens from the third row resulting in the new state (1.3.3). If the CLA then 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o o Ft.re 17. Nirn i.Iba I confilucation. 374 Early Work in Machine Learning Chap. 17 removes all three tokens from the second row, the resultant state is (1.0.3). Suppose the opponent now removes all remaining tokens from the third row. This leaves the CIA with a losing configuration of (1.0.0). At the start of the learning sequence, the matrix is initialied such that the elements in each column are equal (uniform) probability values. For example. since there are eight valid moves from the state (1.3,4) each column element under this state corresponding to a valid move has been given an initial value of A . In a similar manner all other columns have been given uniform proba