a) and Vx Vy (Friend(x,y)ATIsolated(x)AIsolated(y ) Chat(x,)) Therefore, Chat(aditi, shubhagata) : aditi ,(Isolated) and shubhagata 2(Isolated). Here, the above deduction does not apply but it is the case there exists a smaller interpretation 5' in which aditie .(Isolated) and 9, KB, 3: aditi 3(Isolated) and shubhagata 3(Isolated). Here again, the deduction from case 1 does not apply but it is the case there is a smaller interpretation 93 in which shubhagatage ; (Isolated) 9, KB, 4: aditi ,(Isolated) and shubhagata ,(Isolated). Here again, the deduction from case 1 does not apply but it is the case there is a smaller interpretation 9,'in which aditie 2(Isolated), , shubhagatag , (Isolated) and o4 EKB, Observe that 95 , 3 , and 9, are all equivalent to 1, as far as membership of Aditi and Shubagata in the extension of solated is and concerned. Here we have covered all four relevant cases, and ignored the interpretations in which Subun does or does not belong to the interpretation of solated. The key point is that for every interpretation either the goal formula must be true or there must be a smaller interpretation in which the knowledge base is true. Consider the query Chat(aditi jennifer)? This query fails because there is an interpretation in which only Jennifer belongs to the image of solated. In this interpretation, the formula Chat(aditi, Jennifer) is not entailed. Further, we cannot find a smaller interpretation in which the KBz is true. If we remove Jennifer from the set of isolated people, the formula solated(Jennifer) in KB3 becomes false and KB3 is not true. To summarize, Circ ; P is defined as follows. Consider all possible interpretations of the predicate P. These interpretations organize themselves into a lattice structure defined by the ordering (or subset) relation defined above. Extract from this lattice a sublattice in which the given knowledge base . The set of minimal elements of this sub-lattice is the circumscription. If a given formula a is ent