 likely to arise: for k 30, the
disappointment willbearoundtwicethestandarddeviation intheestimates.
This tendency for the estimated expected utility of the best choice to be too high is
called the optimizer s curse (Smith and Winkler, 2006). It afflicts even the most seasoned
OPTIMIZER SCURSE
decision analysts and statisticians. Serious manifestations include believing that an exciting
new drug that has cured 80 patients in a trial will cure 80 of patients (it s been chosen
from k thousands of candidate drugs) or that a mutual fund advertised as having above-
average returns will continue to have them (it s been chosen to appear in the advertisement
out of k dozens of funds in the company s overall portfolio). It can even be the case that
what appears to be the best choice may not be, if the variance in the utility estimate is high:
adrug, selected from thousands tried, that has cured 9of 10 patients is probably worse than
onethathascured800of1000.
Theoptimizer scursecropsupeverywherebecauseoftheubiquityofutility-maximizing
selectionprocesses,sotakingtheutilityestimatesatfacevalueisabadidea. Wecanavoidthe
cursebyusinganexplicitprobability model P(E ! U EU)oftheerrorintheutilityestimates.
Giventhis model andaprior P(EU)onwhat wemight reasonably expect the utilities tobe,
wetreattheutilityestimate,onceobtained,asevidenceandcomputetheposteriordistribution
forthetrueutilityusing Bayes rule.
16.3.4 Humanjudgment and irrationality
Decision theory is a normative theory: it describes how a rational agent should act. A
NORMATIVETHEORY
DESCRIPTIVE descriptivetheory,ontheotherhand,describeshowactualagents forexample,humans THEORY
really do act. The application of economic theory would be greatly enhanced if the two
coincided, butthereappears tobesomeexperimental evidence tothecontrary. Theevidence
suggests thathumansare predictably irrational (Ariely,2009).
620 Chapter 16. Making Simple Decisions
Thebest-knownproblemisthe Allaisparadox(Allais,1953). Peoplearegivenachoice
betw