rld in its head . The model may be an abstraction. A self aware agent would model itself in the world model . Deeper awareness may require that the agent represents (be aware of) itself modeling the world. The reasoning that an agent does happens within the model that the agent has of the external world. The question that Descartes was trying to answer was about his own existence, and he said that the fact that he could think showed that he existed. Another question that has been raised is whether the world (really) out there is what we think it is? Given that everything that we can know is through our perception and cognition, how can we get outside our thoughts and know the real world . An extreme view known as subjective idealism or immaterialism put forward by George Berkeley (1685-1753), also known as Bishop Berkeley, says that there is no out there at all. His view on existence is esse is percipi (to be is to be perceived).1 Berkeley (1710) says objects of sense exist only when they are perceived; the trees therefore are in the garden ... no longer than while there is somebody by to perceive them. This has led to the well known philosophical riddle If a tree falls in a forest and no one is around to hear it, does it make a sound? In the ancient Indian philosophy school, Advaita Vedanta, the term Maya is used to refer to the limited mental and physical reality that our consciousness has got entangled in.18 It is Maya that creates the illusion of the physical universe to be seen by us, and may sometimes lead us to perceive a coiled piece of rope to be a snake. Berkeley was opposing the views put forward by John Locke (1632 1704) that the primary qualities of a (material) object, such as its shape, motion and solidity, are inseparable from the object. Both belonged to the Empiricist school of philosophy that said that there existed an outside world in which our own ideas were rooted. But Berkeley argued that the outside world was also composed of ideas, and that 