peaker believes the hearer believes, and so on. Forexample, when
a politician says, I am not a crook, the world model might assign a probability of
only 50 to the proposition that the politician is not a criminal, and 99.999 to the
proposition thatheisnotahooked shepherd s staff. Nevertheless, weselecttheformer
interpretation because itisamorelikelythingtosay.
3. Thelanguagemodel: thelikelihoodthatacertainstringofwordswillbechosen,given
thatthespeakerhastheintention ofcommunicating acertainfact.
4. The acoustic model: for spoken communication, the likelihood that a particular se-
quenceofsounds willbegenerated, giventhatthespeaker haschosen agivenstringof
words. Section23.5coversspeechrecognition.
Section23.4. Machine Translation 907
23.4 MACHINE TRANSLATION
Machinetranslationistheautomatictranslationoftextfromonenaturallanguage(thesource)
to another (the target). It was one of the first application areas envisioned for computers
(Weaver, 1949), but it is only in the past decade that the technology has seen widespread
usage. Hereisapassagefrompage1ofthisbook:
AI is one of the newestfields in science and engineering. Work started in earnest soon
after World War II,andthenameitselfwascoinedin1956. Alongwithmolecularbiol-
ogy, AI is regularlycited as the field I wouldmost like to be in by scientists in other
disciplines.
Andhereitistranslated from Englishto Danishbyanonlinetool,Google Translate:
AIerenafdenyesteomra derindenforvidenskabogteknik. Arbejdestartedeforalvor
lige efter Anden Verdenskrig, og navnet i sig selv var opfundet i 1956. Sammen med
molekyl rbiologi, er AI j vnligtn vntsom feltet Jeg ville de fleste gernev re i af
forskereiandrediscipliner.
For those who don t read Danish, here is the Danish translated back to English. The words
thatcameoutdifferentareinitalics:
AIisoneofthenewestfieldsofscienceandengineering.Workbeganinearnestjustafter
the Second World War,andthenameitselfwasinventedin1956.Togetherwithmolecular
biology,AIisfrequentlymentionedas field