ateurs to enter commonsense knowledge. The OPENMIND
system was built by volunteers who proposed facts in English (Singh et al., 2002;
Chklovskiand Gil,2005).
440 Chapter 12. Knowledge Representation
12.2 CATEGORIES AND OBJECTS
The organization of objects into categories is a vital part of knowledge representation. Al-
CATEGORY
thoughinteraction withtheworldtakesplaceatthelevelof individual objects, muchreason-
ing takes place at the level of categories. For example, a shopper would normally have the
goalofbuying abasketball, ratherthanaparticular basketball suchas BB . Categoriesalso
9
serve to make predictions about objects once they are classified. One infers the presence of
certainobjectsfromperceptualinput,inferscategorymembershipfromtheperceivedproper-
tiesoftheobjects, andthenusescategory information tomakepredictions abouttheobjects.
For example, from its green and yellow mottled skin, one-foot diameter, ovoid shape, red
flesh,blackseeds,andpresenceinthefruitaisle,onecaninferthatanobjectisawatermelon;
fromthis,oneinfersthatitwouldbeusefulforfruitsalad.
There are two choices for representing categories in first-order logic: predicates and
objects. That is, we can use the predicate Basketball(b), or we can reify1 the category as
REIFICATION
an object, Basketballs. We could then say Member(b,Basketballs), which we will abbre-
viate as b Basketballs, to say that b is a member of the category of basketballs. We say
Subset(Basketballs,Balls), abbreviated as Basketballs Balls, tosay that Basketballs is
asubcategoryof Balls. Wewillusesubcategory, subclass, andsubsetinterchangeably.
SUBCATEGORY
Categories serve to organize and simplify the knowledge base through inheritance. If
INHERITANCE
we say that all instances of the category Food are edible, and if we assert that Fruit is a
subclass of Food and Apples is a subclass of Fruit, then we can infer that every apple is
edible. We say that the individual apples inherit the property of edibility, in this case from
theirm