he Description Logic DL is a language for describing concepts or subsets of the domain D. The simplest concepts are described by the atomic concepts. Compound concepts are combinations of atomic concepts and concept forming operators. The following are the ways of constructing concept descriptions. Every atomic concept is a concept; If ris a role and d is a concept then ALL r d is a concept; If ris a role and rn is a positive integer then EXISTS n 1 is a concept; If ris a role and cis a constant then FILLS r c is a concept; If dy, do, ..., d, are concepts then AND dj, dp, ..., d, is a concept.22 Like in FOL, we can define the meaning of terms by means of an interpretation D, where D is a domain and is a mapping from the DL to the domain. The elements of DL may be interpreted as follows. Every constant c maps to an element of the domain, c D. Every atomic concept a maps to a subset of D, a D. Every role r maps to a binary relation on D, r S D x D. The concepts constructed using the given operators correspond to subsets of the domain as follows. ALL rd is the set of all elements in the domain that are related by r only to elements of type d. MALL r d xeD for all y if x, y e fr then ye a For example, ALL : Grade A is the set of students who earn only A s, and ALL :Daughter Bright is the set of people, all of whose daughters are bright. EXISTS nf is the set of all those elements that are related to at least n elements by the relation r. EXISTS nr xeD there are at least n distinct y such that x, yre Ir For example, EXISTS 1 :Daughter is the set of all those (lucky) people who have at least one daughter, and EXISTS 2 :Friend is the set of all those people who have at least 2 friends. FILLS rc is the set of all those elements that are related by rto c. I FILLS rc xeD x, M c II For example, FILLS :FanOf gerrard is the set of all fans of Gerrard, and FILLS :Study ai is the set of people who study Al. AND dj, do, ..., d, is the set of all those elements that are of the type d