992) that if a partial plan does not have any flaws then it is a solution to the planning problem. The starting plan containing the two actions (Ap, A..) will be a solution plan only if the goal predicates are already true in the start state. That is, for each precondition of A.., the action Ag is the producer, and the corresponding causal links are established. If the algorithm can establish these links then it can terminate. Plan space planning often follows what is known as a least commitment strategy (Weld, 1994). This implies that the algorithm commits to a particular feature in a plan, only when it has to. For example, in the blocks world, if the planner has to achieve armempty when it is holding a block say B. It might want to choose the stack action, but it may not know where to stack the block. It then makes sense to use only partially instantiated operators, and insert stack(B, 2X) into the plan instead of choosing to guess and instantiate it to say stack(B, Q). We will use partially instantiated operators. Then for each variable, one has to keep track of the binding. So in addition to the two kinds of links, the plan representation will also contain a set of binding constraints that contain information of what specific variables can be bound to or cannot be bound to. ontableA clearA AE 4 holdingA clearB AE onAB vlearB Figure 7.15 The causal link (Pickup(A), holding(A), stack(A, B)) is shown with the dotted link. The curved arrow is the ordering link between the two actions. Thus, a node in plan space search will represent a partial plan, and will contain a set of partially instantiated operators, causal and ordering links, and binding constraints. Definition A partial plan P is a 4-tuple n (A, O, L, B) where Ais the set of partially instantiated operators in the plan, Ois the set of ordering relations of the form (A; A)), Lis the set of causal links of the form (Aj, P, Aj), Bis the set of binding constraints of the form (?X ?Y), (?X ?Y), or (?X Dy) where 