yhelmets)maygiveanationoverconfidence, causingittogotowarmore
recklessly than necessary. In most wars, at least one party is overconfident in its military
abilities otherwise theconflictwouldhavebeenresolvedpeacefully.
Weizenbaum (1976) also pointed out that speech recognition technology could lead to
widespread wiretapping, andhencetoalossofcivilliberties. Hedidn tforesee aworldwith
terroristthreatsthatwouldchangethebalanceofhowmuchsurveillancepeoplearewillingto
1036 Chapter 26. Philosophical Foundations
accept, buthedidcorrectly recognize that AIhasthepotential tomass-produce surveillance.
Hisprediction has inpart come true: the U.K.now has anextensive network ofsurveillance
cameras, andothercountries routinely monitor Webtrafficandtelephone calls. Someaccept
thatcomputerization leads toaloss ofprivacy Sun Microsystems CEO Scott Mc Nealyhas
said You have zero privacy anyway. Get over it. David Brin (1998) argues that loss of
privacy is inevitable, and the way to combat the asymmetry of power of the state over the
individual is to make the surveillance accessible to all citizens. Etzioni (2004) argues for a
balancing ofprivacyandsecurity; individual rightsandcommunity.
Theuseof AIsystemsmightresultinalossofaccountability. Inthelitigious atmo-
sphere that prevails in the United States, legal liability becomes an important issue. When a
physicianreliesonthejudgmentofamedicalexpertsystemforadiagnosis, whoisatfaultif
thediagnosisiswrong? Fortunately,dueinparttothegrowinginfluenceofdecision-theoretic
methods in medicine, it is now accepted that negligence cannot be shown if the physician
performsmedicalproceduresthathavehigh expectedutility,eveniftheactualresultiscatas-
trophic for the patient. The question should therefore be Who is at fault if the diagnosis is
unreasonable? So far, courts have held that medical expert systems play the same role as
medicaltextbooksandreferencebooks;physiciansareresponsibleforunderstanding therea-
soning behind any decision and for usin