spectively. The following symbols will also be used for logical connectives - for not or negation & for and or conjunction 50 Formalized Symbolic Logics Chap. 4 V for or or disjunction -+ for if ... then or implication --- for if and only if or double implication In addition, left and right parentheses, left and right braces, and the period will.bc used as delimiters for punctuation. So, for example. to represent the compound sentence ''It is raining and the wind is blowing" we could write (R & B) where R and B stand for the propositions ''It is raining" and "the wind is blowing," respectively. If we write (R V 8) we mean ''it is raining or the wind is blowing or both'' that is. V indicates inclusive disjunction. Syntax the ' n LZIK of FL is defined recursively as follows. 'I' and F are formulas. It P and Q are formulas, the following are formulas: I-Pt (P & 0) (P V 0) (P -.0) (P -.0) All formulas are generated from a finite number of the above operations. An example of a compound formula is ((P & (0 V RI -. l Q -. SO When there is no chance for ambiguity, we will omit parentheses for brevity: ('(P & 'Q)can be written as (P & Q). When omitting parentheses, the precedence given to the connectives from highest to lowest is , &, V. '. and . So, for exanp Ie, to add parentheses correctly to the sentence P &'a V A -. S.-. U V W we write )U(P & '(0)) V A) -. SI -. (U V W)) Sec. 4.2 Syntax and Semantics for Propositional Logic 51 Semantics The semantics or meaning of a sentence is just the value true or lake: that is. it i an assignment of a truth value to the sentence. The values true and ltke should not be confused with the symbols T and F which can appear within a sentence. Note however, that we are not concerned here with philosophical issues related to. meaning but only in determining the truthfulness or falsehood of formulas when a particular interpretation is given to its propositions An interpretation for a sentence or group of sentences is an assignment of a truth