ently observed that a machine can only do what it is programmed to do. This perhaps was an indicator of the debates that accompanied the foray into artificial intelligence (discussed briefly in a section below) which led many people to assert that the goal of Al was to mimic human intelligence. We should then perhaps add our preferred description of what Al is all about: The fundamental goal of this research is not merely to mimic intelligence or produce some clever fake. Al wants the genuine article; machines with minds John Haugeland (1985). Haugeland also says that he would have preferred the name Synthetic Intelligence, since for some people, the word artificial intelligence has a connotation of not being real. Other names that have been suggested are Applied Epistemology, Heuristic Programming, Machine Intelligence and Computational Intelligence. But it is Artificial Intelligence that has stuck both within the scientific community and in popular imagination. The field of Al is a culmination of a long series of efforts to build sophisticated machinery in Europe over the last few centuries, along with advances in philosophy, mathematics and logic in the scientific community. Perhaps a quick look at the history of the activity leading up to our modern times will be insightful. The serious student of artificial intelligence is referred to the books Machines Who Thinkby Pamela McCorduck (1973), and Al: The Very Idea by John Haugeland (1985) that explore the historical and philosophical background in considerably more detail. The material in the next section draws significantly from them. 1.2 Historical Backdrop The urge to create intelligent beings can be traced back to Greek mythology. Hephaestus, son of Hera (the queen of gods and Zeus wife), constructed humanlike creations regularly in his forge. As a present from Zeus to Europa (a human princess), he created Talos out of bronze to guard and defend the island of Crete, where Europa lived. Perhaps his most famous 