ributes and values from more general classes in which they are included. In order to support property inheritance, objects must be organized into classes and classes must be arranged in a generalization hierarchy. Figure 4.5 shows some additional baseball knowledge inserted into a structure that is so arranged. Lines represent attributes. Boxed nodes represent objects and values of attributes of objects. These values can also be viewed as objects with attributes and values, and so on. The arrows on the lines point from an object to its value along the corresponding attribute line, The structure shown in the figure is a slot-and-filler structure. It may also be called a semantic network or a collection of frames. In the latter case, each individual frame represents the collection of attributes and values associated with a particular node. Figure 4.6 shows the node for baseball player displayed as a frame. - _ Right Pepson handed ig! isa Adult- |- -|5-10 Male height A isa hei 6-1 pei equal to_ bats |Baseballbatting-average handed Player Dep o/ \e batting-average ing106 graverso Pitcher Fielder [Catting-average . 565 i instance t instance Chicago team Three-Finger-| |Pee-Wee-|_ team Brooklyn Reese Dodgers | Figure 4.5 Inheritable Knowledge Cubs Brown 84 Artificial Intelligence Baseball-Player isa: Adult-Male bats: (EQUAL handed) height: 6-1 batting-average: 252 Fig. 4.6 Viewing a Node as a Frame Do not be put off by the confusion in terminology here. There is so much flexibility in the way that this (and the other structures described in this section) can be used to solve particular representation problems that it is difficult to reserve precise words for particular representations. Usually the use of the term frame system implies somewhat more structure on the attributes and the inference mechanisms that are available to apply to them than does the term semantic network. In Chapter 9 we discuss structures such as these in substantial detail. But to get an idea of how 