er noun concerned with all things that exist. The phrase an ontology is a variationintroduced in computer science pertaining to the framework associated with a particular domain. 27 http: www.w3.org TR owl-guide , http: www.w3schools.com RDF rdf owl.asp 28 http: protege.stanford.edu 29 In the literature, these are also called the extent and the intent respectively. 30 See http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Formal concept analysis 31 Instead of A, B, C, D, E, F 32 Observe that by using linguistic terms, one avoided addressing the fact that both think and believe are used in the same sense here. 33 A conceptual subgraph of a CG is a subgraph of the CG that is also a CG. 34 http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Gestalt psychology 35 See also http: en.wikipedia.org wiki Formal concept analysis Memory and Experience: Case Based Reasoning Chapter 15 Humankind is a problem solving species. There are basically two approaches to problem solving. One is the first principles approach, in which the agent does search in a space generated by domain modelling. The second is a knowledge based approach, in which the agent knows somehow in advance what the solution is likely to be. And the two are not entirely disjoint. As we have seen in the early chapters, we try and improve the performance of search by knowledge encoded as heuristic functions. On the other hand, when the system is knowledge based, one has to employ search to find the applicable pieces of knowledge. In whatever form and role it occurs, knowledge has to come from somewhere. The form in which the knowledge is held and deployed by the agent may vary, but typically such knowledge is the end product of experience. This experience might be the agent s own experience, or may be a lesson learnt and passed on by someone else. In this chapter, we explore building systems that store and reuse problem solving experiences. Very often, the problem solver has a dynamic memory which stores experiences in an explicit form to be used for future prob