her a solution is found or a revised cost estimate is produced. With nodes whose current cost estimate is large, on the other hand, many steps may be required before any new information is obtained. How would the algorithm have to be changed to implentent this state-selection heuristic? (28) Al(28) The backward cost propagation step 2(c) of the AO* algorithm must be guaranteed to (ye terminate even on graphs containing cycles, Va How can we guarantee that it does? To help (30)E] [F1(10) F](10) answer this question, consider what happens for the following two graphs, assuming in each case that node F is expanded next and that its only successor is A: (6) (50) (8 as) DE] A) Also consider what happens in the following graph if the cost of node C is (6) [B] changed to 3: Cl(5) The AO* algorithm, in step 2(c)i, requires that a node with no descendants in S be AC selected from S, if possible. How should the manipulation of S be implemented so that [8] i" such a node can be chosen efficiently? Make sure that your technique works correctly on the following graph, if the cost of node E is changed: va E . Consider again the AO* algorithm. Under what circumstances will it happen that there are nodes in 5 but there are no nodes in S that have no descendants also in S$? . Trace the constraint satisfaction procedure solving the following cryptarithmetic problem: CROSS + ROADS The constraint satisfaction procedure we have described performs depth-first search whenever some kind of search is necessary. But depth-first is not the only way to conduct such a search (although it is perhaps the simplest). (a) Rewrite the constraint satisfaction procedure to use breadth-first search. (b} Rewrite the constraint satisfaction procedure to use best-first search. Show how means-ends analysis could be used to solve the problem of getting from one place to another. Assume that the available operators are walk, drive, take the bus, take a cab, and fly. Imagine a robot trying to move from one pla