ions that really do interfere with each other, we
canallowforplansthatincludemultiplesimultaneousactions andbecause SATPLA Nfinds
theshortestlegalplan,wecanbesurethatitwilltakeadvantage ofthiscapability.
To summarize, SATPLAN finds models for a sentence containing the initial state, the
goal, the successor-state axioms, the precondition axioms, and the action exclusion axioms.
It can be shown that this collection of axioms is sufficient, in the sense that there are no
longer any spurious solutions. Any model satisfying the propositional sentence will be a
valid plan for the original problem. Modern SAT-solving technology makes the approach
quite practical. Forexample, a DPLL-stylesolverhasno difficulty in generating the11-step
solution forthewumpusworldinstance shownin Figure7.2.
Thissectionhasdescribedadeclarativeapproachtoagentconstruction: theagentworks
byacombination ofasserting sentences intheknowledge baseandperforming logical infer-
ence. This approach has some weaknesses hidden in phrases such as for each time t and
13 Noticethattheadditionofpreconditionaxiomsmeansthatweneednotincludepreconditionsforactionsin
thesuccessor-stateaxioms.
274 Chapter 7. Logical Agents for each square x,y . For any practical agent, these phrases have to be implemented by
codethatgenerates instances ofthegeneral sentence schemaautomatically forinsertion into
theknowledge base. Forawumpusworldofreasonable size one comparable toasmallish
computer game we might need a 100 100 board and 1000 time steps, leading to knowl-
edge bases withtens orhundreds ofmillions ofsentences. Notonly does thisbecome rather
impractical, but it also illustrates a deeper problem: we know something about the wum-
pus world namely, that the physics works the same way across all squares and all time
steps that we cannot express directly in the language of propositional logic. To solve this
problem, we need a more expressive language, one in which phrases like for each time t and for each square x,y can be wr