ional advantage over HIERARCHICAL-SEARCH, which in turn may have
a large advantage over plain old BREADTH-FIRST-SEARCH. Consider, for example, clean-
ing up a large vacuum world consisting of rectangular rooms connected by narrow corri-
dors. It makes sense to have an HLA for Navigate (as shown in Figure 11.4) and one for
Clean Whole Room. (Cleaning the room could be implemented with the repeated application
of another HLA to clean each row.) Since there are five actions in this domain, the cost
for BREADTH-FIRST-SEARCH grows as 5d, where d is the length of the shortest solution
(roughly twice the total number of squares); the algorithm cannot manage even two 2 2
rooms. HIERARCHICAL-SEARCH ismoreefficient,butstillsuffersfromexponential growth
becauseittriesallwaysofcleaningthatareconsistentwiththehierarchy. ANGELIC-SEARCH
scales approximately linearly inthe numberofsquares it commits toagood high-level se-
Section11.3. Planningand Actingin Nondeterministic Domains 415
quence and prunes away the other options. Notice that cleaning a set of rooms by cleaning
each room in turn is hardly rocket science: it is easy for humans precisely because of the
hierarchical structure of the task. When we consider how difficult humans find it to solve
small puzzles such asthe 8-puzzle, itseems likely that the human capacity forsolving com-
plex problems derives to a great extent from their skill in abstracting and decomposing the
problem toeliminatecombinatorics.
The angelic approach can be extended to find least-cost solutions by generalizing the
notion of reachable set. Instead of a state being reachable or not, it has a cost for the most
efficient way to get there. (The cost is for unreachable states.) The optimistic and pes-
simisticdescriptions boundthesecosts. Inthisway,angelicsearchcanfindprovablyoptimal
abstract planswithoutconsidering theirimplementations. Thesameapproach canbeusedto HIERARCHICAL obtain effective hierarchical lookahead algorithms for online search, in the s