inding which is also a constant term? One approach way would be to organize the constants into categc in our example we could introduce the categories person , subject , and educationInstitute . Let us egories boy and girl . Then we need to add more data about the categories of the constant symbc Xomeo), girl(Juliet), subject(Physics), subject(Math), and so on. Let us look at some statements and formalized. If someone likes maths she likes algebra. 7 x((person(x) A likes(x, Math) likes(x, Algebra)) ning that we bind variables starting from the left, then x could only be bound to something that belon category. And constants like Physics will be ruled out. Here are some more statements, Every boy likes a girl. Vx (boy(x) D Sy (girl(y) A likes(x, y)) is this different from Every boy loves a girl."? Do we need to introduce a predicate for every wo inguage? Then if we wanted to assert that if someone loves likes someone then they care for ther arate rules for love and like? Could the above sentence be formalized as the following? dy (girly) A Wx (boy(x) likes(x, y)) English language is rich and ambiguous enough to allow both meanings. One of the advan tion is that one gets rid of such ambiguity. In the following we can use the same predicate likes to Every boy likes a course. Vx (boy(x) D Sy (course(y) A likes(x, y)) we introduce categories like boy and person do we need to put in data for both? Or can we rules like, Wx (boy(x) D person(x)) ill explore some of these knowledge representation issues in the next chapter. Meanwhile let us rett itomated reasoning. Skolemization er formulas contain both universally quantified and existentially quantified variables. However 's use rules that have only universally quantified variables. Rules of inference typically say If ther t P(x) is true then Q(x) holds too . Though x sounds existential in the above reading there is an versally quantified variable. The equivalent statement is For all x such that P(x)... . We will express n st