 Lehnert in her doctoral thesis as part of the Yale group (Lehnert, 1978). 14.5.1 MOPs A Script is a data structure that stands in isolation. As the problem solvers experience increases, the number of scripts in its memory will increase. Memory Organization Packets (MOPs) were introduced to weave the many possible scripts into one large structure (Schank, 1982; 1999). The idea, like in Frames, is not only economy of representation, but also to facilitate the finding of relevant knowledge. Consider a linear script like a visit to a dentist. The main action takes place when the patient goes and sits on the dental chair; the dentist inspects her teeth, and carries out the required procedure. This activity may be grouped together in a scene. Schank defines a scene as a memory structure that groups together actions with a shared goal, that occurred at the same time . Further, a MOP consists of a set of scenes, directed towards the achievement of goal. An MOP always has one major scene whose goal is the essence or purpose of the events organized by the MOP (Schank, 1982). A dentist MOP then would consist of four scenes: making an appointment, arrival and waiting, consultation, and payment. A visit to a lawyer MOP, shown in Figure 14.13, would share three scenes with the dentist MOP and differ on in the consultation scene. While the dentist scene may have a tooth-extraction event, the lawyer scene may have a contract-signing event. The memory structures are themselves organized into packaging (aggregation) hierarchies and abstraction hierarchies, as shown in Figure 14.13. cl Sone Visit Professional aes a ae Visit Dentist Visit Friend vee. Pay - . ConsultWaiting Room Scene - Make Appointmentpg -Tooth Extraction -Sign Contract FIGURE 14.13 Memory organization packets are made up of abstraction and packaging (or aggregation) hierarchies. At this point, we can distinguish between two kinds of knowledge that exists in an agent's memory. One, semantic memory, is ontological in n