face amongst the clouds, and it what predisposes us to a particular interpretation of an ambiguous optical image, or a sentence. Language understanding is also influenced by expectations of the listener. The expectations originate from various sources. We may know the speaker to be a terrible bore, and expect a long and painful narrative about his exploits. Or we may know the situation and generate expectations from that. For example, if two boys are fighting over some marbles, we expect to hear accounts of how the game was played and who won the marbles or who cheated. Some of these expectations that are generated by world knowledge we will look at in the next chapter, when we look at knowledge structures. For the moment we look at expectations that are generated by the individual words that appear in a sentence. Some words always occur together and we can generate expectations at the lexical level. For example phrases like inexorably squeezed , ulterior motive , corrupt officials , hopping mad , thank you and good luck occur frequently enough to predict the second word. But the kind of expectations we are interested in here are those that are generated by the meaning to the words seen so far. For example if we hear, Ramesh ate a ... we expect to hear of some food type object. Once we know that an act of INGESTING is being spoken about, we know that there must be an animate eater and some edible object. This kind of semantic knowledge would allow us to make sense of grammatically ill formed sentences as well, suggesting that syntactic parsing is not necessarily a precursor to semantics. For example if a baby says Amit eat apple or even apple Amit eat then it is not a major handicap that the sentence is not well formed. Situation knowledge may in fact help us understand the sentence easily. One could figure out whether the child Amit wants to eat an apple, or whether it has eaten one, or whether some third person called Amit has eaten one. One of the theories that S