 a shared knowledge structure called a blackboard. Modules can post items on the blackboard, and they can read and act on messages that are posted by other modules. e Message-passing systems, in which one reasoning module sends messages (both requests for services and information as well as replies to such requests) to one or more other modules whose names are explicitly known. Although on the surface, these two techniques appear quite different, they tum out in practice to offer essentially the same support for distributed reasoning. In fact, they can be used to simulate each other, as we see below. In the rest of this section, we describe examples of each approach. Blackboard Systems The blackboard approach to the organization of large AI programs was first developed in the context of the HEARSAY-II speech-understanding project [Erman er af., 1980]. The idea behind the blackboard approach is simple. The entire system consists of: A set of independent modules, called knowledge sources (or KSs), that contain the system s domainspecific knowledge A blackboard, which is the shared data structure through which the knowledge sources communicate with each other Accontrol system, which determines the order in which knowledge sources will operate on the entries on the blackboard To see how these pieces work together, let s look at the HEARSAY-II system. Here, the Ss correspond to the levels of knowledge about speech, language (syllables, words, phrases, and sentences), and the task being discussed. The blackboard contains hypotheses about interpretations at each of these levels, Control is performed by a specialized knowledge source that reasons about such factors as cost of execution and likelihood of achieving a result. When a KS is activated (as described below), it examines the current contents of the blackboard and applies its knowledge either to create a new hypothesis and write it on the blackboard, or to modify an existing one Although the execution of the entire H