n-functional receptors or receptors that recognize the self or cells that contain damaged binding sites. Such cells are efficiently eliminated or are programmed to die (apoptosis'). 24.9 IMMUNE NETWORK THEORY The clonal selection theory is based on the fact that immune systems comprise several discrete cells that work together to defend the system. In contrast the Immune Network theory, proposed by N.K.Jerne in 1974, presents a different perspective of the immune system. Also known as the /diotypic theory, it suggests that the immune system consists of a network of cells that recognize each other even in the absence of antigenic material. It defines the immune system to be a complex set of paratopes and epitopes that can recognize each other. This is achieved by idiotopes that are basically epitopes on the antibody or cell receptors. Figure 24.7 shows an antibody molecule with an idiotope and the manner in which they form a network. Since antibodies could occur in a free medium as molecules and on B-cells as the receptors, both molecules and the cells tend to form a network connected by the epitope-idiotope pairs. The presence of an antigenic material is detected by an antibody having the closest complementary paratope (complementary to the epitope on the antigen). This activates the antibody which in turn stimulates the one it is connected to in the network. On non-recognition it suppresses the antibody it is connected to. In brief, a stimulatory effect is set up when the idiotope of an antibody A is recognized by the paratope of antibody B and a suppressive effect occurs in the reverse case. Thus a positive (stimulation) signal is sent to the network on recognition and a negative (suppression) signal otherwise. The network stabilizes itself due to the fact that the concentration of some of its elements dies down while those of others increase. Since the elements of the network interact with each other a dynamic steady state is achieved. The case study discussed la