t there is a very specific sense in which it is useful to talk about a specific class of techniques as constraint-based. Recall that in Section 3.5 we presented an algorithm for constraint satisfaction that was based on the notion of propagating constraints throughout a system until a final state was reached. This algorithm is particularly effective precisely when knowledge is represented in a way that makes it efficient to propagate constraints. This will be true whenever it is easy to locate the objects that a given object influences. This occurs when the objects in the system are represented as a network whose links correspond to constraints among the objects. We considered one example of this when we talked about Bayesian networks in Section 8.3. We consider other examples later in this book. For example, we return to the problem of simulating physical processes, such as electronic circuits, in Section 19.1. We present in Section 14.3 a constraint-propagation solution (known as the Waltz algorithm) to a simple vision problem. And in Section 15.5 we outline a view of natura! language understanding as a constraint satisfaction task. 226 Artificial Intelligence 11.3.2 Models and Model-Based Reasoning For many kinds of problem-solving tasks, it is necessary to modet the behavior of some object or system. To diagnose faults in physical devices, such as electronic circuits or electric motors, it is necessary to model the behavior of both the correctly functioning device and some number of ill-functioning variants of it. To evaluate potential designs of such devices requires the same capability. Of course, as soon as we begin to think about modeling such complex entities, it becomes clear that the best we will be able to do is create an approximate model. There are various techniques that we can use to do that. When we think about constructing a model of some entity in the world, the issue of what we mean by a model soon arises. To what extent should the structure of t