r 7 explains how to do this in a
formal representation scheme. Another approach is to avoid the standard search algorithms,
whichtreatbeliefstatesasblackboxesjustlikeanyotherproblemstate. Instead,wecanlook
Section4.4. Searchingwith Partial Observations 141
L
R
1 3 1 2 3 2 4
L R
5 7 4 5 6 6 8
7 8
S
4 5
S S
7 8
L R
L
5 S 5 3 6 4 S 4
7 7 8 8
R
R L L R
L
6 S S 3
8 7
8 R 7
Figure4.14 Thereachableportionofthebelief-statespaceforthedeterministic,sensor-
lessvacuumworld.Eachshadedboxcorrespondstoasinglebeliefstate. Atanygivenpoint,
the agentis in a particularbeliefstate butdoesnotknowwhichphysicalstate it is in. The
initial belief state (complete ignorance) is the top center box. Actions are represented by
labeledlinks. Self-loopsareomittedforclarity.
INCREMENTAL
insidethebeliefstatesanddevelopincrementalbelief-statesearch algorithms thatbuildup
BELIEF-STATE
SEARCH
the solution one physical state at a time. For example, in the sensorless vacuum world, the
initial belief state is 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 , and wehave tofindan action sequence that works
inall8states. Wecandothisbyfirstfindingasolution thatworksforstate1;thenwecheck
ifitworksforstate 2;ifnot, goback andfindadifferent solution forstate1, andsoon. Just
asan AND OR search hastofindasolution forevery branch at an AND node, thisalgorithm
hastofindasolution forevery stateinthebelief state; thedifference isthat AND OR search
can find a different solution for each branch, whereas an incremental belief-state search has
tofindonesolutionthatworksforallthestates.
The main advantage of the incremental approach is that it is typically able to detect
failurequickly when abeliefstateisunsolvable, itisusuallythecasethatasmallsubsetof
thebeliefstate,consisting ofthefirstfewstatesexamined, isalsounsolvable. Insomecases,
142 Chapter 4. Beyond Classical Search
thisleads toaspeedup proportional tothesizeofthebelief states, whichmaythemselves be
aslargeasthephysicalstatespaceitself.
Even the most efficient solution algorithm is not of much 