ed optimal payoff is achieved by both denying and getting a total penalty of 100. However, there is the temptation to betray the other and escape with 10. Seen from an individual perspective, the following extensive form of the game is represented as shown in Figure 8.2. Even though the choices are made concurrently, one views this as a sequential phenomenon in which the two players act one after the other. Since the outcome depends upon the other player s action, the rational choice is to choose a move in which the worst penalty is as small as possible. Thus, the safer choice for you is to confess because it could at worst lead to the penalty of 100. If you deny the crime and the other player confesses, you will be in for a 200 penalty. Obviously, for habitual bank robbers, the more profitable strategy is to stand by each other and deny any involvement. You He Denies Confesses, Denies You get 100 You get 10 You get 200 You get 50 FIGURE 8.2 In the extensive form of Prisoner's Dilemma, the payoff is seen to be a function of the other person's choice after you have made your decision. This can be perhaps seen more clearly by looking at an equivalent extensive form in which the other player plays first, as shown in Figure 8.3. If the opponent confesses, you are better off confessing yourself to get a penalty of -100, instead of 200. And if the opponent denies, you can get away with 10 by confessing. He ri Denies Denies Confess, Deny You get 100 You get 200 You get 10 You get 50 FIGURE 8.3 In an equivalent extensive representation, one can see that whatever the other player does; in each case, confessing is a better option for you. Observe that in the Prisoner s Dilemma, the two players choose without really knowing what the other player has chosen. This is in contrast to many situations where a player is aware of the opponent's choice while making a move. To distinguish between these two cases, one often draws the extensive form of the game (McCain, 2004) as shown in 