nd to the beliefs of a typical American cunservative (circa 1977). The second dialogue occurred when POLITICS was given a model that was intended to correspond to the beliefs of a typical American liberal (of the same vintage). The general point here is that defining what it means to produce a correct answer to a question may be very hard. Usuaily. question-answering programs define what it means to be an answer by the procedure that is used fo compute the answer. Then their authors appeal to other people to agree that the answers found by the pregram make sense and so to confirm the model of question answering defined in the program. This is not completely satisfactory, but no better way of defining the problem has yet been found. For lack of a better method. we will do the same here and illustrate three definitions of question answering, cach with a correspondmg program that implements the definition. In order ta be able to compare the three programs, we illustrate all of them using the following text: Mary went shopping for a new coat. She found a red one she really liked. When she got it home, she discovered that it went perfectly with her favorite dress. We will also attempt to answer each of the following questions with each program: Qi What did Mary ge shopping for? Q2: What did Mary find that she liked? Q3: Did Mary buy anything? Program 1 This program attempts to answer questions using the literal input text, It simply matches text fragments in the questions against the input text. Data Structures Question Pattems A set of templates that match common question forms and produce patterns to be used to match against inputs. Templates and patterns (which we call text patterns) are paired so that if a template matches successfully against an input question then its associated text What is Artifice ficial intelligence? 13 srmastron Tm Re SEN ats De aag8doe ic ARRORERERSA MS acme patterns are used to try to find appropriate answers in the text. For example, if the