 should perhaps terminate our exploration of C now. We could then devote more time to exploring other parts of the tree where there may be more to gain. Terminating the exploration of a subtree that offers little possibility for improvement over other known paths is called a futility cutoff. 12.4 ADDITIONAL REFINEMENTS In addition to alpha-beta pruning, there are a variety of other modifications to the minimax procedure that can also improve its performance. Four of them are discussed briefly in this section, and we discuss one other important modification in the next section. 12.4.1 Waiting for Quiescence As we suggested above, one of the factors that should sometimes be considered in determining when to stop going deeper in the search tree is whether the situation is relatively stable. Consider the tree shown in Fig. 12.7. Suppose that when node B is expanded one more level, the result is that shown in Fig. (2.8. When we looked one move ahead, our estimate of the worth of B changed drastically. This might happen, for example, in the middle of a piece exchange. The opponent has significantly improved the immediate appearance of his or her position by initiating a piece exchange. If we stop exploring the tree at this level, we assign the value 4 to B and therefore decide that B is not a good move. Game Playing 241 Maximizing ply A Minimizing ply B | (6) C | (0) D | (2) E [F (0) (4) Fig. 12.7 The Beginning of a Search Fig. 12.8 The Beginning of an Exchange To make sure that such short-term measures do not unduly influence our choice of move, we should continue the search until no such drastic change occurs from one level to the next. This is called waiting for quiescence. If we do that, we might get the situation shown in Fig. 12.9, in which the move to B again looks like a reasonable move for us to make since the other half of the piece exchange has occurred. A very general algorithm for quiescence can be found in Beal [1990]. A Maximizing ply B | (6) C |) D/(2) Min