pert comes in. Generally, the evaluation function is computed as a sum of values of different features, and we add or subtract values for each good feature or bad feature. This kind of knowledge may be acquired from an expert, or one could devise experiments to learn from experience. Typically, the evaluation function is split into different components. In Chess, for example, one may count the material value and add to that the positional value. Chess players are used to assigning values to the pieces in the range of 1 to 10. Typically, pawns are valued at one point, knights and bishops about three points each, rooks about five points, and the queen about nine points. The fighting value of the king in the end game is equivalent to about four points. The material value of the king would be arge, if it were counted, because its capture ends the game in a loss. Chess programmers however choose numbers in a larger range, thus enabling them to add positional values also more precisely. Thus, in the evaluation function of a program, a queen may be worth 900 points, a rook 500, a bishop 325, a knight 300 and a pawn 100. The material balance on a given board position is arrived at by adding the value of all the pieces on our side, and subtracting the value of pieces on the opponent's side. One may observe that the value of the evaluation function in the starting position is zero. The positional part of the evaluation function looks at many aspects. These are concerned with mobility, board control, development, pawn formations, piece combinations, king protection, etc. For example, two rooks in the same column have an added value; a pair of bishops is better than a bishop and a knight; knights are valuable in certain kinds of end positions. Traditionally, development and centre control have been given great importance; one s pieces must become as mobile as possible and either occupy the centre or control it. Pawn formations are also subject to evaluation; chained pawns that 