dical doctor may give greater credence to the belief that a patient is afflicted by a particular disease, if an epidemic has started. As more and more cards are played, a bridge player forms stronger beliefs of how the rest of the cards are distributed. There are many cues that we take to influence our beliefs and decisions. The first thing one has to do is to decide upon the set of random variables for modelling a given situation. Let X X4, Xo, ..., X, bea vector on N random variables. Let each variable X; have a sample space D; Vj1, Vj2, .-.. Vig which is a vector of values that the variable X; can ae eee that each variable may have a domain of independent size ?. Each such variable may have a probability distribution associated with it, known as the a priori probability. Let I; pj1, Pio, ..., Pix be the a priori probability distribution for the random variable. The task at hand is that given the above a priori probabilities, given that some random variables have taken certain values, and some additional knowledge, to determine the a posteriori probabilities of other variables of interest. The additional knowledge alluded to here is knowledge of conditional probabilities. That is knowledge of how variables taking some values affect the probabilities of other variables. The conditional probability of variable X; being influenced by variables X,, and X,, is written as I (X; Xm; Xn). It is not necessary that two random variables are conditionally dependent. If probabilities do not depend upon each other, we say that the variables are independent. The simplest example of independent events is coin tosses, or tossing say two coins simultaneously. Let X and Y be the random variables for the two coins, which can take values from the set heads, tails . Then we know that, PX. Y) PCo P() But we also know that by the product rule, PCX, Y) PAY) PY) POX) PX) From the above two equations, we can derive, POY) PO) which can be seen as an equation characterizing the independence o