ogic sentence says what is intended is to negate it anc t the negation reads correctly. Negate the too formalizations, and move the negation sign inside. Ho id the two negated sentences? he resolution proof for the Alice problem in Figure 12.14 is conforms to the unit clause strategy. But conform to the set of support strategy. Produce a resolution proof for the same problem that conforr of support strategy. Jse natural deduction on the detective problem of Section 12.8 to derive the formula Culprit(Butler) . pply resolution method to the above problem with the goal Culprit(Butler) . ; the following set of sentences satisfiable? f yes, give a model for the sentences. If no, give a just A father and his son were walking along the road when they met with an accident. The father die spot and the son was rushed to the hospital. When he was brought to the operating table the refused to operate upon him saying cannot operate upon this boy. He is my son . orward chaining and backward chaining are unable to handle rules with disjunctive consequents. Wt junctive antecedents in rules? Can we handle rules of the kind (if (or (p q)) r) ? Justify your answer. farish said The resolution method is semi-decidable. If the input formula is unsatisfiable the theorem halt. If not, it could loop for ever. To which Sneha responded, will run two programs in parallel. Tc input the formula A, and to the other 7A. One of them is bound to halt. So will know if A is unsatisfi 1 What do you think? 3iven a set of FOL formulas in the prescribed form read the formulas from a text file and convert eact ) clause form. For each predicate and function add the appropriate equality axioms and convert therr use form. Choose an appropriate naming convention for Skolem constants and functions. nplement the Unification algorithm. For a given set of formulas in the clause form generated by assic mplement the resolution method. Allow the user to choose between a set of strategies. Display the d Gs in graphica