sion set may serve an immediate goal, but may not be a great idea over the long term, specially if it becomes a habit. Again, one sees that actions may be intelligent with respect to short term goals, but stupid with respect to long term goals. This may happen at smaller and smaller time frame levels. Tripping an opponent who is charging towards your goal in a football match may be a right thing if it averts the goal, but wrong if you get a red card and are sent out, and the opponents anyway score of the resulting free kick. The point we are trying to make is that actions or decisions can only be judged in the context of the goal. Intelligence (or wisdom, in the larger context) may often lie in the selection of the goal to pursue. Having selected goals, one must figure out the actions that will achieve those goals. There is considerable scope for intelligence here as well. As we shall see later in the book, goals and actions will form a layered hierarchy. Goals are addressed by plans of actions, and may themselves be part of higher level goals. For example, packing a bag may involve a plan, but itself may be part of a holiday plan. Our endeavour in building intelligent machines will start at the bottom of the goal hierarchy, and then move upwards. Our task will be to devise means to find the right actions, at any given level. A software program controlling the stability of an aircraft will choose the right actions to do so at one level, a chess program may do so at another level. A route planner that gives you instructions in a car, a diagnostic program that tells you what is wrong with your copier, a program that teaches you how to solve problems in algebra and geometry, a storytelling machine, a program that guides you step by step through a recipe, or a program that acts as an organized memory repository for you, or cross checks your logical reasoning all of these will fall within the scope of our work. We will not address the issues of whether these programs are