 easy to agree that computer simulations of storms do not make us wet, it is not
clear how to carry this analogy over to computer simulations of mental processes. After
all, a Hollywood simulation of a storm using sprinklers and wind machines does make the
actors wet, andavideo gamesimulation ofastorm does makethe simulated characters wet.
Most people are comfortable saying that a computer simulation of addition is addition, and
ofchessischess. Infact,wetypically speakofanimplementation ofaddition orchess,nota
simulation. Arementalprocesses morelikestorms,ormorelikeaddition?
Turing s answer the polite convention suggests that the issue will eventually go
away by itself once machines reach a certain level of sophistication. This would have the
effect ofdissolving the difference between weakand strong AI. Against this, one may insist
that there is a factual issue at stake: humans do have real minds, and machines might or
might not. To address this factual issue, we need to understand how it is that humans have
real minds, not just bodies that generate neurophysiological processes. Philosophical efforts
MIND BODY to solve this mind bodyproblem are directly relevant to the question ofwhether machines
PROBLEM
couldhaverealminds.
Themind bodyproblemwasconsideredbytheancient Greekphilosophers andbyvar-
ious schools of Hindu thought, but was first analyzed in depth by the 17th-century French
philosopher andmathematician Rene Descartes. His Meditations on First Philosophy(1641)
considered themind s activity ofthinking (aprocess withnospatial extent ormaterial prop-
erties) andthephysical processes ofthebody, concluding that thetwomustexist inseparate
realms what we would now call a dualist theory. The mind body problem faced by du-
DUALISM
alists is the question of how the mind can control the body if the two are really separate.
Descartesspeculated thatthetwomightinteractthroughthepinealgland,whichsimplybegs
thequestion ofhowthemindcontrolsthepinealgland.
1028 Chapter 26. P