ate words must be chosen and the slots filled. Functions are used to operate on the net to complete it syntactically to obtain the correct tense, mood, form, and voice. When completed, a modified ATN is then used to transform the conceptual dependency structure into a surface sentence Structure for output. The final conceptual dependency structure passed to the ATN would appear as follows. joe P 0 0 joe '" INGEST -e-- oft-dr,nk C can ---- ^T loe t MOVE soft drink Contain Can DI ft-drink mouth An ATN used for text generation differs from one used for analysis. In particular, the registers and arcs must be different. The value of the register contents (denoted as (i in the previous section) corresponds to a node or arc in the conceptual dependency 264 Natural Language Processing Chap. 12 (or other type) network rather than the next word in the input sentence. Registers will be present to hold tense, voice, and the like. For example, a register named FORM might be set to past and a register VOICE set to active when generating an active sentence like "Joe bought candy." Following an arc such as a CAT/V arc means there must be a word in the lexicon corresponding to the node in the conceptual dependency. The tense of the word then follows from the FORM register contents. 12.7 NATURAL LANGUAGE SYSTEMS In this section, we briefly describe a few of the more successful natural language understanding systems. They include LUNAR, LIFER, and SIIRDLU. The LUNAR System The LUNAR system was designed as a language interface to give geologists direct access to a data base containing information on lunar rock and soil compositions obtained during the NASA Apollo-] I moon landing mission. The design objective was to build a system that could respond to natural queries received from geologists such as What is the average concentration of aluminum in high-alkali r N:ks? What is the average of the basalt? In which samples has apatite been identified? LUNAR has three main components: I. A 