n his delightful collection of chess mysteries (Smullyan, 1979; 1992). A simple example of such a problem is given below. The book itself contains more challenging ones. FIGURE 13.9 A simple problem of retrograde analysis. The above figure represents the state of the board in a game of chess. Simply by looking at the board position, one can answer the question Who played last, and what was the last move? because in this situation only one move is consistent with the rules of chess. Notice that the black king is in check from both the white bishop and the white queen. Hence white must have moved last to administer the check. Further, before white s move, the black king must not have been in check by either of them, since it would have had to take some defensive action and would then no longer be in check. This implies that both the checks must have been administered in white s last move, one of them a discovered check, and that move could only have been moving the white bishop from e8 to c6'9. The interested reader should look at the books by Smullyan for more intricate problems. A retrograde analysis problem requiring the solver to find the last 96 moves is attributed to the Hungarian chess player Gyula Breyer (see http: mathpuzzle.com retrograde.html). A collection of problems and references can be found at (TRAC). While retrograde analysis is an interesting example of logical (deductive) reasoning, the representation issues themselves are fairly straightforward. The rules of the game generate a state space in which actions link states. One does not really need to reason at a fine grained level where fluents might be required. Event calculus, on the other hand, equips us with machinery to reason at a more fine grained level. For example, one can infer that if a player has picked up a knight from the chessboard, she is holding the knight, and that the knight is no longer on the board. Such knowledge, while it does mirror facts, is not useful for the task of solving 