ithout even trying to place the fifth queen. Before we look at search, we look at the idea of constraint propagation or consistency establishment. Even before starting search, one can do a certain amount of reasoning on the problem. Consider the problem CSP7 described above. The relation R12 asserts that the value of the variable x, should be strictly less than the value of x2. This means that x2 can never take the value x2 1. We can thus remove the value 1 from the domain of x2 so that a search algorithm will not even try it. We look at his notion of constraint propagation in the next section. 9.2 Constraint Propagation A solution to a CSP is an assignment of a value for each variable from its domain, such that all constraints are satisfied. A search algorithm tries different assignment of values to variables in some order. The domains of variables contain all possible values that each variable can take. Some of them may be part of a solution and some may not. The algorithm Backtracking described in a Section 9.6 below tries only those values for the next variable that are consistent with the choices made for earlier variables. If we can reduce the values of the domain in a variable, we can reduce the number of options a search algorithm needs to look at. In the extreme case, we can make the search backtrack free wherein all consistent values available for each variable at its turn lead to a solution. Reduction of domains is a form of making inferences, and like all computation incurs a cost. The goal is to arrive at a balance in which the cost of making inferences is less than the reduction in the cost of search. We introduce the notion of consistency for a CSP. There are various degrees of consistency defined as follows. Given that (k 1) variables have been assigned values, a CSP is said to be k-consistent, if for any k variable there exists a value that is consistent with the (k 1) variables. We need a few more definitions to formalize this notion (Dechter, 2003