se techniques are often called weak methods. Although a realization of the limited effectiveness of these weak methods to solve hard problems by themselves has been an important result that emerged from the last three decades of AI research, these techniques continue to provide the framework into which domain-specific knowledge can be placed, either by hand or as a result of automatic learning. Thus they continue to form the core of most Al systems. We have already discussed two very basic search strategies: Depth-first search Breadth-first search In the rest of this chapter, we present some others: * Generate-and-test Hill climbing e Best-first search e Problem reduction * Constraint satisfaction Means-ends analysis 3.1. GENERATE-AND-TEST The generate-and-test strategy is the simplest of all the approaches we discuss. It consists of the following steps: Algorithm: Generate-and-Test 1. Generate a possible solution. For some problems, this means generating a particular point in the problem space. For others, it means generating a path from a start state. Heuristic Search Techniques 51 CREME ROCA NS MOLE: 2. Test to see if this is actually a solution by comparing the chosen point or the endpoint of the chosen path to the set of acceptable goal states. 3. Ifa solution has been found, quit. Otherwise, return to step 1. If the generation of possible solutions is done systematically, then this procedure will find a solution eventually, if one exists. Unfortunately, if the problem space is very large, eventually may be a very long time. The generate-and-test algorithm is a depth-first search procedure since complete solutions must be generated before they can be tested. In its most systematic form, it is simply an exhaustive search of the problem space. Generate-and-test can, of course, also operate by generating solutions randomly, but then there is no guarantee that a solution will ever be found. In this form, it is also known as the British Museum algorithm, a reference