at the taxonomy above does not represent her notion of similarity of food items. For example, the French crepe is quite similar to the Indian dosa, also similar to the Ethiopian injera, whereas they are far apart in the taxonomy. That is, in fact, true because a closer observation reveals that the similarity defined on the taxonomy is based on the region the food belongs to, and not on the food itself. So one might say that the above taxonomy represents familiarity, based on region, and foods from similar regions are considered to be similar (from the point of choosing a menu that serves us well enough though). It has also been pointed out that the notion of similarity also depends upon the task that is being addressed. For example, when your friend says that Thai food is okay, and if a restaurant offers Red-Curry , the similarity between the two should be 1. This can be termed any-value semantics (Bergmann, 2002). In the above example, the value in the case ( Red-Curry ) is a descendant of the value in the Query ( Thai ). Any value semantics could also occur when the value in the Query (say Ravioli ) is a descendant of a value in a case (say Italian ). This is interpreted as the situation when your friend wants to eat Ravioli and a restaurant offers all Italian food. One could refer to the former as any-value semantics in a recommender system scenario, while the latter is any-value scenario in a diagnostic scenario. As a more apt example of the latter, consider the situation when you have a pain in your ear then there is good match for consultation with an ENT (ear, nose and throat) specialist. Observe that in the any-value semantics, one is saying that the internal node represents a set of leaf nodes, and one of them will match perfectly with the leaf in question. Thus, your friend s desire to eat Thai could be interpreted as a desire to eat either Red-Curry or Khao-Pad and if the restaurant supplies the former then it is a good match. Likewise, if a doctor is a s