d: [HOUSE:?] means which house? The exclamation mark is used for emphasis to draw attention to a concept. The asterisk signifies a variable or unspecified object: IHOUSE:*xl means a house or some house. The pound sign signifies a definite article known to the speaker. For example. [House:#4321 refers to a specific house, house number 432. The Ca symbol relates to quantification: [l-IOUSE:@ n] means n houses. V signifies every or all, the same as in FOPL. The tilde is negation. Double quotation marks delimit literal strings. And the colon, brackets, parentheses, and directed arcs are used to construct graph structures as illustrated above. Since conceptual graphs and -FOPL are both a form of logical system, one might expect that it is possible to map from one representation to the other. Indeed this is the case, although some mappings will, in general, result in second order FOPL statements. To transform a conceptual graph to a predicate logic statement requires that unique variable names be assigned to every generic concept of the graph. Thus, the concepts EAT and FOOD of Figure 7.5 would be assigned the variable flames x and y, respectively. Next, all type labels such as PERSON and FOOD are converted to unary predicates with the same name. Conceptual relations such as AGENT. OBJECT, and INSTRUMENT are converted to predicates with as. many arguments as there are arcs connected to the relation. Concept referrents such as Joe and soup become FOPL Constants. Concepts with extended referrents such as V map to the universal quantifier V. Generic concepts with no quantifier in the referrent field have an existential quantifier, 3, placed before the formula for each variable, and conjunction symbols, &, are placed between the predicates. As an example, one could convert the sentence "Every-car has an engine' from its conceptual graph representation given by [CAR:Vl '-.(PART) (ENGINE] to its equivalent FOPL representation. Using the rules outlined above, the equivalent FOPL