thatithappensordoesnot
happen;andtoviewgeometricallytheproportionthatallthesethingshavetogether.
Bibliographical and Historical Notes 637
Modern texts talk of utility rather than good and evil, but this statement correctly notes that
one should multiply utility by probability ( view geometrically ) to give expected utility,
and maximize that over all outcomes ( all these things ) to judge what one must do. It
is remarkable how much this got right, 350 years ago, and only 8 years after Pascal and
Fermatshowed howtouse probability correctly. The Port-Royal Logicalso marked thefirst
publication of Pascal swager.
Daniel Bernoulli (1738), investigating the St. Petersburg paradox (see Exercise 16.3),
was the first to realize the importance of preference measurement for lotteries, writing the
value of an item must not be based on its price, but rather on the utility that it yields (ital-
ics his). Utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham (1823) proposed the hedonic calculus for
weighing pleasures and pains, arguing that all decisions (not just monetary ones) could
bereducedtoutilitycomparisons.
The derivation of numerical utilities from preferences was first carried out by Ram-
sey(1931); theaxiomsforpreference inthepresenttextare closerinformtothoserediscov-
ered in Theory of Games and Economic Behavior (von Neumann and Morgenstern, 1944).
Agoodpresentationoftheseaxioms,inthecourseofadiscussiononriskpreference,isgiven
by Howard (1977). Ramsey had derived subjective probabilities (not just utilities) from an
agent s preferences; Savage (1954) and Jeffrey (1983) carry out more recent constructions
ofthis kind. Von Winterfeldt and Edwards (1986) provide amodern perspective ondecision
analysis and its relationship to human preference structures. The micromort utility measure
is discussed by Howard (1989). A 1994 survey by the Economist set the value of a life at
between 750,000 and 2.6 million. However, Richard Thaler (1992) found irrational fram-
ing effects on the price one i