le 15.5 Soundex codes for some words Grate, great Network, network Henry, Henary Torn Worn Hom Note that the last three words are different only in the starting alphabet. This algorithm can thus be used to measure the similarity of two words. This measure can then be used to find possible good candidates for correction to be effected for a misspelled word such as rorm (viz. tom, worn, hor). SUMMARY eg du SSOISESE 8 gb RSOEDEON SETAE OE EIONY LIS APO RN IRR Ea BOIS ELLERY R SRE RIUEII EEO ALOEN VAS, et EEE He aos INNA ORR ERT cat AN BAR RTE ep RETISNE 1A PS RARE ABLE AR ELAM MSE BIL EHF SINE SPR TE AETIO EDR ATLA EN, In this chapter, we presented a brief introduction to the surprisingly hard problem of language understanding. Recall that in Chapter f4, we showed that at least one understanding problem, line labeling, could effectively be viewed as a constraint satisfaction problem. One interesting way to summarize the natural language understanding problem that we have described in this chapter is to view it too as a constraint satisfaction problem. Unfortunately, many more kinds of constraints must be considered, and even when they are all exploited, it is usually not possible to avoid the guess and search part of the constraint satisfaction procedure. But constraint satisfaction does provide a reasonable framework in which to view the whole collection of steps that together create a meaning for a sentence. Essentially each of the steps described in this chapter exploits a particular kind of knowledge that contributes a specific set of constraints that must be satisfied by any correct final interpretation of a sentence. Syntactic processing contributes a set of constraints derived from the grammar of the language. It imposes constraints such as: Word order, which rules out, for example, the constituent, manager the key, in the sentence, I gave the apartment manager the key. Number agreement, which keeps trial run from being interpreted as a sentence in The first tri