imate of the
worldstatethattheninformstheexecution oftheoverallplan;inthiscase, themultiplebod-
ies act as a single body. When communication constraints make this impossible, we have
5 Futilerepetitionofaplanrepairisexactlythebehaviorexhibitedbythesphexwasp(page39).
426 Chapter 11. Planningand Actinginthe Real World
DECENTRALIZED whatissometimescalledadecentralizedplanningproblem;thisisperhapsamisnomer,be-
PLANNING
causetheplanningphaseiscentralizedbuttheexecutionphaseisatleastpartiallydecoupled.
Inthiscase,thesubplanconstructed foreachbodymayneedtoincludeexplicitcommunica-
tiveactions withotherbodies. Forexample, multiple reconnaissance robots covering awide
areamayoftenbeoutofradiocontactwitheachotherandshouldsharetheirfindingsduring
timeswhencommunication isfeasible.
When a single entity is doing the planning, there is really only one goal, which all the
bodiesnecessarilyshare. Whenthebodiesaredistinctagentsthatdotheirownplanning,they
may still share identical goals; for example, two human tennis players who form a doubles
team share the goal of winning the match. Even with shared goals, however, the multibody
and multiagent cases are quite different. In a multibody robotic doubles team, a single plan
dictates which body willgo where on the court and which body willhit the ball. Ina multi-
agent doubles team,ontheotherhand, eachagent decides whattodo;without somemethod
for coordination, both agents may decide to cover the same part of the court and each may
COORDINATION
leavetheballfortheothertohit.
Theclearest caseofamultiagent problem, ofcourse, iswhen the agents havedifferent
goals. In tennis, the goals of two opposing teams are in direct conflict, leading to the zero-
sum situation of Chapter 5. Spectators could be viewed as agents if their support ordisdain
is a significant factor and can be influenced by the players conduct; otherwise, they can be
treated asanaspect ofnature just liketheweather that is assumedtobeindifferent tothe
players intentions.6
Final