ch is called simply Artificial Intelligence. In addition, Cognitive Science is devoted to papers dealing with the overlapping areas of psychology, linguistics, and artificial intelligence. Al Magazine is a more ephemeral, less technical magazine that is published by the American Association for Artificial Intelligence (AAAI). IEEE Expert, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and several other journais publish papers on a broad spectrum of AI application domains. Since 1969, there has been a major Al conference, the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (CAD, held every two years. The proceedings of these conferences give a good picture of the work that was taking place at the time. The other important Ai conference, held three out of every four years starting in 1980, is sponsored by the AAAI, and its proceedings, too, are published. In addition to these general references, there exists a whole array of papers and books describing individual AI projects. Rather than trying to list them all here, they are referred to as appropriate throughout the rest of this book. 1.7. ONE FINAL WORD AND BEYOND What conclusions can we draw from this hurried introduction to the major questions of AI? The problems are varied, interesting, and hard. If we solve them, we will have useful programs and perhaps a better understanding of human thought. We should do the best we can to set criteria so that we can tell if we have solved the problems, and then we must try to do so. How actually to go about solving these problems is the topic for the rest of this book. We need methods to help us solve Al s serious dilemma: 1. An Al system must contain a lot of knowledge if it is to handle anything but trivial toy problems. 2. But as the amount of knowledge grows, it becomes harder to access the appropriate things when needed, so more knowledge must be added to help. But now there is even more knowledge to manage, so more must