of Richard s brothersare Johnand Geoffrey isasfollows:
Brother(John,Richard) Brother(Geoffrey,Richard) John (cid:7) Geoffrey x Brother(x,Richard) (x John x Geoffrey).
For many purposes, this seems much more cumbersome than the corresponding natural-
language expression. As a consequence, humans may make mistakes in translating their
knowledge into first-order logic, resulting in unintuitive behaviors from logical reasoning
systems that use the knowledge. Can we devise a semantics that allows a more straightfor-
wardlogicalexpression?
Oneproposalthatisverypopularindatabasesystemsworksasfollows. First,weinsist
that every constant symbol refer to a distinct object the so-called unique-names assump-
UNIQUE-NAMES tion. Second, we assume that atomic sentences not known to be true are in fact false the
ASSUMPTION
CLOSED-WORLD closed-world assumption. Finally, we invoke domain closure, meaning that each model
ASSUMPTION
DOMAINCLOSURE 8 Actuallyhehadfour,theothersbeing Williamand Henry.
300 Chapter 8. First-Order Logic
R J R J R J R J R J
R R R R . . . R
J J J J J
Figure8.5 Somemembersofthesetofallmodelsforalanguagewithtwoconstantsym-
bols,Rand J,andonebinaryrelationsymbol,underdatabasesemantics. Theinterpretation
oftheconstantsymbolsisfixed,andthereisadistinctobjectforeachconstantsymbol.
contains no more domain elements than those named by the constant symbols. Under the
DATABASE resulting semantics, which we call database semantics to distinguish it from the standard
SEMANTICS
semantics of first-order logic, the sentence Equation (8.3) does indeed state that Richard s
two brothers are John and Geoffrey. Database semantics is also used in logic programming
systems,asexplained in Section9.4.5.
It is instructive to consider the set of all possible models under database semantics for
the same case as shown in Figure 8.4. Figure 8.5 shows some of the models, ranging from
the model with no tuples satisfying the relation to the model with all tuples satisfying the
relation. With 