he
theory of information value (Chapter 16), is concerned with exactly the problem of
directing sensors, and already some robots have incorporated the theoretical results
obtained. STANLEY s132-mile trip through thedesert (page 28) wasmadepossible in
largepartbyanactivesensingsystem ofthiskind.
Insum, manyofthe issues Dreyfus has focused on background commonsense knowledge,
the qualification problem, uncertainty, learning, compiled forms of decision making are
indeed important issues, and have by now been incorporated into standard intelligent agent
design. Inourview,thisisevidence of AI sprogress, notof itsimpossibility.
One of Dreyfus strongest arguments is for situated agents rather than disembodied
logicalinferenceengines. Anagentwhoseunderstandingof dog comesonlyfromalimited
set of logical sentences such as Dog(x) Mammal(x) is at a disadvantage compared
to an agent that has watched dogs run, has played fetch with them, and has been licked by
one. As philosopher Andy Clark (1998) says, Biological brains are first and foremost the
control systems for biological bodies. Biological bodies move and act in rich real-world
1026 Chapter 26. Philosophical Foundations
surroundings. Tounderstandhowhuman(orotheranimal)agentswork,wehavetoconsider
EMBODIED thewholeagent,notjusttheagentprogram. Indeed,theembodiedcognitionapproachclaims
COGNITION
that it makes no sense to consider the brain separately: cognition takes place within a body,
which is embedded in an environment. We need to study the system as a whole; the brain
augmentsitsreasoning byreferringtotheenvironment, asthereaderdoesinperceiving (and
creating) marks on paper to transfer knowledge. Under the embodied cognition program,
robotics, vision, andothersensorsbecomecentral, notperipheral.
26.2 STRONG AI: CAN MACHINES REALLY THINK?
Many philosophers have claimed that a machine that passes the Turing Test would still not
be actually thinking, but would be only a simulation of thinking. Again, the objection was
fores