 We say that system A is more efficacious than system B if system A is more efficient, robust, and general than B. Ease of implementation. Ease of implementation relates to the complexity of the programs and data structures and the resources required to develop the given learning system. Lacking good complexity metrics, this measure will often be somewhat subjective. Other performance terms that are specific to different paradigms will be introduced as needed. 16.6 SUMMARY Knowledge acquisition is the purposeful addition or refinement of knowledge structures to a knowledge base for use by knowledge-based systems. Machine learning is the autonomous acquisition of knowledge through the use of computer programs. The acquired knowledge may consist of facts, concepts, rules, relations, plans,. and procedures. and the source of the knowledge may be one or more of the following: data bases, textbooks, domain experts, reports, or the environment. A useful taxonomy for learning is one that is based on the behavioral strategy employed in the learning process, strategies like rote (memorization), being told, analogy, induction, or deduction. Rote learning requires little inference, while the other methods require increasingly greater amounts. An important lesson learned by expert systems researchers is that knowledge acquisition is difficult, often requiring tens of person years to assemble several hundred rules. This problem helped to revive active research in more autonomous forms of acquisition or machine learning. Any model of learning should include conponents which support the basic learner component. These include a teacher or environment, a knowledge base, a performance component which uses the knowledge, and a Critic or performance evaluation unit which provides feedback to the learner about the performance. Factors which affect the performance or learner system include (I) the representation scheme used. (2) the training scenario, (3) the type of feedback, (4) backgr