. The Natureof Environments 41
andpotholes. Thetaximustalsointeractwithpotentialandactualpassengers. Therearealso
some optional choices. The taxi might need to operate in Southern California, where snow
is seldom aproblem, orin Alaska, where it seldom isnot. Itcould always be driving on the
right, orwemightwantittobeflexibleenough todriveontheleftwhenin Britain or Japan.
Obviously, themorerestricted theenvironment, theeasier thedesignproblem.
Theactuatorsforanautomatedtaxiincludethoseavailable toahumandriver: control
overtheengine through theaccelerator andcontrol oversteering andbraking. Inaddition, it
will need output to a display screen or voice synthesizer to talk back to the passengers, and
perhapssomewaytocommunicatewithothervehicles, politely orotherwise.
The basic sensors for the taxi will include one or more controllable video cameras so
that it can see the road; it might augment these with infrared or sonar sensors to detect dis-
tancestoothercarsandobstacles. Toavoidspeedingtickets,thetaxishouldhaveaspeedome-
ter,andtocontrolthevehicleproperly, especiallyoncurves,itshouldhaveanaccelerometer.
Todetermine themechanical state ofthevehicle, itwillneed theusual array ofengine, fuel,
and electrical system sensors. Like many human drivers, it might want a global positioning
system (GPS) so that it doesn t get lost. Finally, it will need a keyboard or microphone for
thepassengertorequest adestination.
In Figure 2.5, we have sketched the basic PEAS elements for a number of additional
agenttypes. Furtherexamplesappearin Exercise2.4. Itmaycomeasasurprisetosomeread-
ers that our list of agent types includes some programs that operate in the entirely artificial
environmentdefinedbykeyboardinputandcharacteroutputonascreen. Surely, onemight
say, thisisnotarealenvironment, isit? Infact,whatmattersisnotthedistinction between real and artificial environments, butthecomplexityof therelationship amongthebehav-
ior of the agent, the percept sequence generated by the environme