ader can find the derivation of the above expression in de Kleer s paper. 17.3.4 Fault Models The consistency based diagnosis approach we have seen so far works with models in which component behaviour is described only for the working case. The abnormality predicate Ab(C) can only distinguish between working and nonworking components. As far as it knows, either component C works or it is broken. If it works then its behaviour must conform to the constraints or relation associated with it. When the component is broken, it is assumed that nothing can be said about its behaviour. In practice, one can say something about the behaviour of broken components. And one can often identify different ways of a component malfunctioning, each with a characteristic behaviour pattern. For example, the pressure regulator valve discussed earlier could get stuck in the OPEN position, in which pressure drop would be proportional to the flow of the fluid. Or it could get stuck in the CLOSED position, in which case the flow would be zero. As shown by Peter Struss and Oskar Dressler (1989), an understanding of the behaviour of a broken component, which they term physical negation, can lead to pruning of impossible candidates that GDE is compelled to keep amongst the contenders. We look at the example discussed in their paper. The circuit shown in Figure 17.16 is made up of three kinds of components. There are three bulbs, six wires (which are now treated as components and not conduits), and one battery. The ten components are connected as shown in the figure. We assume there are no conduits, and each component has two terminals which may directly be connected to the terminals of other components. The situation is that bulb Bg is lit, while B, and Bo are off. The task is to find out what is broken. Figure 17.16 Three bulbs connected to a battery in parallel, with six wire components. To anyone with a basic knowledge of electrical circuits, it is immediately clear that both the bulbs B,and