 figure is a strategy, containing one move for MAX and all for MIN. And this strategy is a winning strategy. Of course, if the opponent has also done this analysis then the starting board position completely decides the outcome, without having to search the consequent game tree. One only needs to count the coins on the board, and the game is no longer of any interest. Observe, that with a large number like 400, the game tree would have a depth of 400 moves with an average depth being about 200 moves. With a branching factor of three, this is quite a big tree. But faced with the knowledge gleaned from the above analysis, the game can simply be played in constant time! The kind of analysis done for above is not only restricted to games like Pic123. Even in other board games, one can analyse positions in advance and prepare a generalised strategy that can be executed without going through search. This is, in fact, done in games like Chess as a matter of routine, but only for certain end positions. For example, most players quickly learn how to mate the opponent's king with a rook and a king, with two rooks, with a queen and a king, with two bishops, etc. The game subtree below these positions may be quite large, but seasoned players tend to treat such positions as terminal nodes, just like we did in the Pic123 game above. This means that playing the game is no longer just using search to look ahead, but also collecting and applying a set of specialized methods for specific situations which have to be recognized by some kind of pattern recognition process. This involves more sophisticated knowledge representation and processing techniques. Because search methods are general in nature and do not require special treatments for special situations, they may perform poorly in situations where specialized knowledge would solve the problem quickly. This is the case, for example, when a Chess player uses triangulation to achieve Zugzwang, or uses a special procedure to mate the