 the event being
generated isnottheassignment ofavaluetoavariable, buttheveryexistence ofobjects.
Onewaytodothisin OUP Msistoaddstatements thatdefineconditional distributions
over the numbers of objects of various kinds. For example, in the book-recommendation
domain, we might want to distinguish between customers (real people) and their login IDs.
Supposeweexpectsomewherebetween100and10,000distinctcustomers(whomwecannot
observedirectly). Wecanexpressthisasapriorlog-normal distribution9 asfollows: Customer Log Normal 6.9,2.32 ().
We expect honest customers to have just one ID, whereas dishonest customers might have
anywherebetween10and1000IDs: Login ID(Owner c) if Honest(c)then Exactly(1)
else Log Normal 6.9,2.32 ().
This statement defines the number of login IDs for a given owner, who is a customer. The
Owner function is called an origin function because it says where each generated object
ORIGINFUNCTION
camefrom. Intheformal semantics of BLOG (asdistinct from first-order logic), thedomain
elementsineachpossibleworldareactuallygenerationhistories(e.g., thefourthlogin IDof
theseventhcustomer )ratherthansimpletokens.
9 Adistribution Log Normal , 2 (x)isequivalenttoadistribution N , 2 (x)overlog (x).
e
546 Chapter 14. Probabilistic Reasoning
Subject to technical conditions of acyclicity and well-foundedness similar to those for
RP Ms, open-universe models of this kind define a unique distribution over possible worlds.
Furthermore, there exist inference algorithms such that, for every such well-defined model
and every first-order query, the answer returned approaches the true posterior arbitrarily
closely in the limit. There are some tricky issues involved in designing these algorithms.
For example, an MCMC algorithm cannot sample directly in the space of possible worlds
when the size of those worlds is unbounded; instead, it samples finite, partial worlds, rely-
ing on the fact that only finitely many objects can be relevant to the query in distinct ways.
Moreover, tr